The Complete Works of William Shakespeare
There are several editions of this ebook in the Project Gutenberg collection.
Civilizing Huck.—Miss Watson.—Tom Sawyer Waits.
Various characteristics of each ebook are listed to aid in selecting the
The Boys Escape Jim.—Torn Sawyer’s Gang.—Deep-laid Plans.
THE TRAGEDY OF ANTONY AND CLEOPATRA
Click on any of the filenumbers below to quickly view each ebook.
A Good Going-over.—Grace Triumphant.—“One of Tom Sawyers’s Lies”.
THE TRAGEDY OF HAMLET, PRINCE OF DENMARK
2009    1872, Sixth Edition, considered the definitive edition.
Huck and the Judge.—Superstition.
THE FIRST PART OF KING HENRY THE FOURTH
THE SECOND PART OF KING HENRY THE FOURTH
Huck’s Father.—The Fond Parent.—Reform.
BY MEANS OF NATURAL SELECTION,
THE LIFE OF KING HENRY THE FIFTH
He Went for Judge Thatcher.—Huck Decided to Leave.—Political
PRESERVATION OF FAVOURED RACES IN THE STRUGGLE FOR LIFE.
THE FIRST PART OF HENRY THE SIXTH
Laying for Him.—Locked in the Cabin.—Sinking the Body.—Resting.
Fellow Of The Royal, Geological, Linnæan, Etc., Societies;
Author Of ‘Journal Of Researches During H.M.S. Beagle’s Voyage
Sleeping in the Woods.—Raising the Dead.—Exploring the Island.—Finding
THE SECOND PART OF KING HENRY THE SIXTH
THE THIRD PART OF KING HENRY THE SIXTH
Jim.—Jim’s Escape.—Signs.—Balum.
JOHN MURRAY, ALBEMARLE STREET.
“But with regard to the material world, we can at least go so far as
THE LIFE AND DEATH OF KING JOHN
The Find.—Old Hank Bunker.—In Disguise.
Huck and the Woman.—The Search.—Prevarication.—Going to Goshen.
THE TRAGEDY OF OTHELLO, THE MOOR OF VENICE
this—we can perceive that events are brought about not by insulated
interpositions of Divine power, exerted in each particular case, but by the
THE TRAGEDY OF ROMEO AND JULIET
Slow Navigation.—Borrowing Things.—Boarding the Wreck.—The
establishment of general laws.”
THE TRAGEDY OF TITUS ANDRONICUS
Plotters.—Hunting for the Boat.
W. WHEWELL: _Bridgewater Treatise_.
Escaping from the Wreck.—The Watchman.—Sinking.
TWELFTH NIGHT; OR, WHAT YOU WILL
“To conclude, therefore, let no man out of a weak conceit of sobriety, or
A General Good Time.—The Harem.—French.
From fairest creatures we desire increase,
an ill-applied moderation, think or maintain, that a man can search too far or
Huck Loses the Raft.—In the Fog.—Huck Finds the Raft.—Trash.
That thereby beauty’s rose might never die,
Expectation.—A White Lie.—Floating Currency.—Running by Cairo.—Swimming
But as the riper should by time decease,
be too well studied in the book of God’s word, or in the book of
God’s works; divinity or philosophy; but rather let men endeavour an
An Evening Call.—The Farm in Arkansaw.—Interior Decorations.—Stephen
His tender heir might bear his memory:
endless progress or proficience in both.”
But thou contracted to thine own bright eyes,
Dowling Bots.—Poetical Effusions.
Feed’st thy light’s flame with self-substantial fuel,
BACON: _Advancement of Learning_.
Col. Grangerford.—Aristocracy.—Feuds.—The Testament.—Recovering the
Raft.—The Wood—pile.—Pork and Cabbage.
1. VARIATION UNDER DOMESTICATION.
Making a famine where abundance lies,
9. ON THE IMPERFECTION OF THE GEOLOGICAL RECORD.
Thyself thy foe, to thy sweet self too cruel:
Tying Up Day—times.—An Astronomical Theory.—Running a Temperance
10. ON THE GEOLOGICAL SUCCESSION OF ORGANIC BEINGS.
Thou that art now the world’s fresh ornament,
Revival.—The Duke of Bridgewater.—The Troubles of Royalty.
And only herald to the gaudy spring,
Huck Explains.—Laying Out a Campaign.—Working the Camp—meeting.—A
11. GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION.
12. GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION—_continued_.
Pirate at the Camp—meeting.—The Duke as a Printer.
Within thine own bud buriest thy content,
13. MUTUAL AFFINITIES OF ORGANIC BEINGS: MORPHOLOGY:
Sword Exercise.—Hamlet’s Soliloquy.—They Loafed Around Town.—A Lazy
And, tender churl, mak’st waste in niggarding:
Sherburn.—Attending the Circus.—Intoxication in the Ring.—The Thrilling
Pity the world, or else this glutton be,
14. RECAPITULATION AND CONCLUSION.
Sold.—Royal Comparisons.—Jim Gets Home-sick.
DETEAILED CONTENTS. ON THE ORIGIN OF SPECIES.
To eat the world’s due, by the grave and thee.
Jim in Royal Robes.—They Take a Passenger.—Getting Information.—Family
When forty winters shall besiege thy brow,
CHAPTER I. VARIATION UNDER DOMESTICATION.
And dig deep trenches in thy beauty’s field,
Is It Them?—Singing the “Doxologer.”—Awful Square—Funeral Orgies.—A Bad
Character of Domestic Varieties.
Thy youth’s proud livery so gazed on now,
Difficulty of distinguishing between Varieties and Species.
A Pious King.—The King’s Clergy.—She Asked His Pardon.—Hiding in the
The Funeral.—Satisfying Curiosity.—Suspicious of Huck,—Quick Sales and
Origin of Domestic Varieties from one or more Species.
Will be a tattered weed of small worth held:
Then being asked, where all thy beauty lies,
The Trip to England.—“The Brute!”—Mary Jane Decides to Leave.—Huck
Domestic Pigeons, their Differences and Origin.
Principle of Selection anciently followed, its Effects.
Where all the treasure of thy lusty days;
Parting with Mary Jane.—Mumps.—The Opposition Line.
Methodical and Unconscious Selection.
Contested Relationship.—The King Explains the Loss.—A Question of
To say, within thine own deep sunken eyes,
Unknown Origin of our Domestic Productions.
Were an all-eating shame, and thriftless praise.
Handwriting.—Digging up the Corpse.—Huck Escapes.
The King Went for Him.—A Royal Row.—Powerful Mellow.
Circumstances favourable to Man’s power of Selection.
How much more praise deserv’d thy beauty’s use,
Ominous Plans.—News from Jim.—Old Recollections.—A Sheep
If thou couldst answer ‘This fair child of mine
CHAPTER 2. VARIATION UNDER NATURE.
Still and Sunday—like.—Mistaken Identity.—Up a Stump.—In a Dilemma.
Shall sum my count, and make my old excuse,’
Wide ranging, much diffused, and common species vary most.
Proving his beauty by succession thine.
Species of the larger genera in any country vary more than the
A Nigger Stealer.—Southern Hospitality.—A Pretty Long Blessing.—Tar and
The Hut by the Ash Hopper.—Outrageous.—Climbing the Lightning
This were to be new made when thou art old,
species of the smaller genera.
Many of the species of the larger genera resemble varieties in being
Escaping Properly.—Dark Schemes.—Discrimination in Stealing.—A Deep
And see thy blood warm when thou feel’st it cold.
The Lightning Rod.—His Level Best.—A Bequest to Posterity.—A High
Look in thy glass and tell the face thou viewest,
very closely, but unequally, related to each other, and in having
Now is the time that face should form another,
The Last Shirt.—Mooning Around.—Sailing Orders.—The Witch Pie.
CHAPTER 3. STRUGGLE FOR EXISTENCE.
The Coat of Arms.—A Skilled Superintendent.—Unpleasant Glory.—A Tearful
Whose fresh repair if now thou not renewest,
The term used in a wide sense.
Geometrical powers of increase.
Rats.—Lively Bed—fellows.—The Straw Dummy.
Thou dost beguile the world, unbless some mother.
Rapid increase of naturalised animals and plants.
Fishing.—The Vigilance Committee.—A Lively Run.—Jim Advises a Doctor.
For where is she so fair whose uneared womb
Disdains the tillage of thy husbandry?
Nature of the checks to increase.
The Doctor.—Uncle Silas.—Sister Hotchkiss.—Aunt Sally in Trouble.
Tom Sawyer Wounded.—The Doctor’s Story.—Tom Confesses.—Aunt Polly
Or who is he so fond will be the tomb
Protection from the number of individuals.
Complex relations of all animals and plants throughout nature.
Arrives.—Hand Out Them Letters.
Of his self-love to stop posterity?
Out of Bondage.—Paying the Captive.—Yours Truly, Huck Finn.
Thou art thy mother’s glass and she in thee
Struggle for life most severe between individuals and varieties of
Calls back the lovely April of her prime,
the same species; often severe between species of the same genus.
“They got him out and emptied Him”
Henry the Eighth in Boston Harbor
So thou through windows of thine age shalt see,
The relation of organism to organism the most important of all
He fairly emptied that Young Fellow
Natural Selection: its power compared with man’s selection, its power
Despite of wrinkles this thy golden time.
But if thou live remembered not to be,
on characters of trifling importance, its power at all ages and on
A Crack in the Dining-room Door
Die single and thine image dies with thee.
“Mr. Archibald Nichols, I presume?”
On the generality of intercrosses between individuals of the same
Persons attempting to find a motive in this narrative will be
Circumstances favourable and unfavourable to Natural Selection,
Unthrifty loveliness why dost thou spend,
namely, intercrossing, isolation, number of individuals.
Upon thyself thy beauty’s legacy?
prosecuted; persons attempting to find a moral in it will be banished;
Nature’s bequest gives nothing but doth lend,
persons attempting to find a plot in it will be shot.
Extinction caused by Natural Selection.
Divergence of Character, related to the diversity of inhabitants of
In this book a number of dialects are used, to wit: the Missouri negro
And being frank she lends to those are free:
Then beauteous niggard why dost thou abuse,
any small area, and to naturalisation.
dialect; the extremest form of the backwoods Southwestern dialect; the
Action of Natural Selection, through Divergence of Character and
The bounteous largess given thee to give?
ordinary “Pike County” dialect; and four modified varieties of this
Profitless usurer why dost thou use
Extinction, on the descendants from a common parent.
last. The shadings have not been done in a haphazard fashion, or by
So great a sum of sums yet canst not live?
guesswork; but painstakingly, and with the trustworthy guidance and
Explains the Grouping of all organic beings.
For having traffic with thyself alone,
support of personal familiarity with these several forms of speech.
Effects of external conditions.
Use and disuse, combined with natural selection; organs of flight and
I make this explanation for the reason that without it many readers
Thou of thyself thy sweet self dost deceive,
would suppose that all these characters were trying to talk alike and
Then how when nature calls thee to be gone,
Compensation and economy of growth.
What acceptable audit canst thou leave?
Multiple, rudimentary, and lowly organised structures variable.
Scene: The Mississippi Valley Time: Forty to fifty years ago
Parts developed in an unusual manner are highly variable: specific
Thy unused beauty must be tombed with thee,
You don’t know about me without you have read a book by the name of The
Which used lives th’ executor to be.
characters more variable than generic: secondary sexual characters
Adventures of Tom Sawyer; but that ain’t no matter. That book was made
Species of the same genus vary in an analogous manner.
by Mr. Mark Twain, and he told the truth, mainly. There was things
Those hours that with gentle work did frame
which he stretched, but mainly he told the truth. That is nothing. I
Reversions to long-lost characters.
The lovely gaze where every eye doth dwell
never seen anybody but lied one time or another, without it was Aunt
CHAPTER 6. DIFFICULTIES ON THEORY.
Will play the tyrants to the very same,
Polly, or the widow, or maybe Mary. Aunt Polly—Tom’s Aunt Polly, she
And that unfair which fairly doth excel:
Difficulties on the theory of descent with modification.
For never-resting time leads summer on
Absence or rarity of transitional varieties.
is—and Mary, and the Widow Douglas is all told about in that book,
To hideous winter and confounds him there,
Transitions in habits of life.
which is mostly a true book, with some stretchers, as I said before.
Now the way that the book winds up is this: Tom and me found the money
Diversified habits in the same species.
Sap checked with frost and lusty leaves quite gone,
that the robbers hid in the cave, and it made us rich. We got six
Species with habits widely different from those of their allies.
Beauty o’er-snowed and bareness every where:
Organs not in all cases absolutely perfect.
thousand dollars apiece—all gold. It was an awful sight of money when
Then were not summer’s distillation left
it was piled up. Well, Judge Thatcher he took it and put it out at
A liquid prisoner pent in walls of glass,
The law of Unity of Type and of the Conditions of Existence embraced
interest, and it fetched us a dollar a day apiece all the year
Beauty’s effect with beauty were bereft,
by the theory of Natural Selection.
Instincts comparable with habits, but different in their origin.
Nor it nor no remembrance what it was.
round—more than a body could tell what to do with. The Widow Douglas
she took me for her son, and allowed she would sivilize me; but it was
But flowers distilled though they with winter meet,
Domestic instincts, their origin.
rough living in the house all the time, considering how dismal regular
Leese but their show, their substance still lives sweet.
Natural instincts of the cuckoo, ostrich, and parasitic bees.
Then let not winter’s ragged hand deface,
Hive-bee, its cell-making instinct.
and decent the widow was in all her ways; and so when I couldn’t stand
In thee thy summer ere thou be distilled:
it no longer I lit out. I got into my old rags and my sugar-hogshead
Difficulties on the theory of the Natural Selection of instincts.
Distinction between the sterility of first crosses and of hybrids.
again, and was free and satisfied. But Tom Sawyer he hunted me up and
Make sweet some vial; treasure thou some place,
said he was going to start a band of robbers, and I might join if I
With beauty’s treasure ere it be self-killed:
Sterility various in degree, not universal, affected by close
interbreeding, removed by domestication.
would go back to the widow and be respectable. So I went back.
That use is not forbidden usury,
The widow she cried over me, and called me a poor lost lamb, and she
Which happies those that pay the willing loan;
Laws governing the sterility of hybrids.
Sterility not a special endowment, but incidental on other
called me a lot of other names, too, but she never meant no harm by it.
That’s for thyself to breed another thee,
Or ten times happier be it ten for one,
Causes of the sterility of first crosses and of hybrids.
She put me in them new clothes again, and I couldn’t do nothing but
Ten times thyself were happier than thou art,
sweat and sweat, and feel all cramped up. Well, then, the old thing
Parallelism between the effects of changed conditions of life and
If ten of thine ten times refigured thee:
Fertility of varieties when crossed and of their mongrel offspring
commenced again. The widow rung a bell for supper, and you had to come
Then what could death do if thou shouldst depart,
Hybrids and mongrels compared independently of their fertility.
to time. When you got to the table you couldn’t go right to eating, but
Leaving thee living in posterity?
you had to wait for the widow to tuck down her head and grumble a
CHAPTER 9. ON THE IMPERFECTION OF THE GEOLOGICAL RECORD.
Be not self-willed for thou art much too fair,
little over the victuals, though there warn’t really anything the
On the absence of intermediate varieties at the present day.
matter with them,—that is, nothing only everything was cooked by
To be death’s conquest and make worms thine heir.
On the nature of extinct intermediate varieties; on their number.
Lo in the orient when the gracious light
On the vast lapse of time, as inferred from the rate of deposition
itself. In a barrel of odds and ends it is different; things get mixed
On the poorness of our palæontological collections.
up, and the juice kind of swaps around, and the things go better.
Lifts up his burning head, each under eye
After supper she got out her book and learned me about Moses and the
On the intermittence of geological formations.
Doth homage to his new-appearing sight,
On the absence of intermediate varieties in any one formation.
Serving with looks his sacred majesty,
Bulrushers, and I was in a sweat to find out all about him; but
And having climbed the steep-up heavenly hill,
On the sudden appearance of groups of species.
by-and-by she let it out that Moses had been dead a considerable long
On their sudden appearance in the lowest known fossiliferous strata.
Resembling strong youth in his middle age,
time; so then I didn’t care no more about him, because I don’t take no
CHAPTER 10. ON THE GEOLOGICAL SUCCESSION OF ORGANIC BEINGS.
Pretty soon I wanted to smoke, and asked the widow to let me. But she
Yet mortal looks adore his beauty still,
wouldn’t. She said it was a mean practice and wasn’t clean, and I must
On the slow and successive appearance of new species.
Attending on his golden pilgrimage:
On their different rates of change.
But when from highmost pitch with weary car,
try to not do it any more. That is just the way with some people. They
Species once lost do not reappear.
get down on a thing when they don’t know nothing about it. Here she was
Like feeble age he reeleth from the day,
The eyes (fore duteous) now converted are
a-bothering about Moses, which was no kin to her, and no use to
Groups of species follow the same general rules in their appearance
anybody, being gone, you see, yet finding a power of fault with me for
and disappearance as do single species.
From his low tract and look another way:
So thou, thyself out-going in thy noon:
On simultaneous changes in the forms of life throughout the world.
doing a thing that had some good in it. And she took snuff, too; of
Unlooked on diest unless thou get a son.
On the affinities of extinct species to each other and to living
course that was all right, because she done it herself.
Music to hear, why hear’st thou music sadly?
Her sister, Miss Watson, a tolerable slim old maid, with goggles on,
On the state of development of ancient forms.
had just come to live with her, and took a set at me now with a
Sweets with sweets war not, joy delights in joy:
On the succession of the same types within the same areas.
Summary of preceding and present chapters.
Why lov’st thou that which thou receiv’st not gladly,
spelling-book. She worked me middling hard for about an hour, and then
Or else receiv’st with pleasure thine annoy?
the widow made her ease up. I couldn’t stood it much longer. Then for
CHAPTER 11. GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION.
an hour it was deadly dull, and I was fidgety. Miss Watson would say,
Present distribution cannot be accounted for by differences in
If the true concord of well-tuned sounds,
By unions married do offend thine ear,
“Don’t put your feet up there, Huckleberry;” and “Don’t scrunch up like
Affinity of the productions of the same continent.
They do but sweetly chide thee, who confounds
that, Huckleberry—set up straight;” and pretty soon she would say,
Means of dispersal, by changes of climate and of the level of the
“Don’t gap and stretch like that, Huckleberry—why don’t you try to
land, and by occasional means.
In singleness the parts that thou shouldst bear:
behave?” Then she told me all about the bad place, and I said I wished
Dispersal during the Glacial period co-extensive with the world.
Mark how one string sweet husband to another,
Strikes each in each by mutual ordering;
CHAPTER 12. GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION—_continued_.
I was there. She got mad then, but I didn’t mean no harm. All I wanted
Distribution of fresh-water productions.
Resembling sire, and child, and happy mother,
was to go somewheres; all I wanted was a change, I warn’t particular.
Who all in one, one pleasing note do sing:
She said it was wicked to say what I said; said she wouldn’t say it for
On the inhabitants of oceanic islands.
the whole world; she was going to live so as to go to the good place.
Absence of Batrachians and of terrestrial Mammals.
Whose speechless song being many, seeming one,
Well, I couldn’t see no advantage in going where she was going, so I
Sings this to thee, ‘Thou single wilt prove none’.
On the relation of the inhabitants of islands to those of the nearest
made up my mind I wouldn’t try for it. But I never said so, because it
On colonisation from the nearest source with subsequent modification.
Is it for fear to wet a widow’s eye,
would only make trouble, and wouldn’t do no good.
Summary of the last and present chapters.
That thou consum’st thyself in single life?
Ah, if thou issueless shalt hap to die,
Now she had got a start, and she went on and told me all about the good
CHAPTER 13. MUTUAL AFFINITIES OF ORGANIC BEINGS: MORPHOLOGY:
place. She said all a body would have to do there was to go around all
EMBRYOLOGY: RUDIMENTARY ORGANS.
The world will wail thee like a makeless wife,
day long with a harp and sing, forever and ever. So I didn’t think much
The world will be thy widow and still weep,
CLASSIFICATION, groups subordinate to groups.
of it. But I never said so. I asked her if she reckoned Tom Sawyer
That thou no form of thee hast left behind,
Rules and difficulties in classification, explained on the theory of
When every private widow well may keep,
Descent always used in classification.
would go there, and she said not by a considerable sight. I was glad
about that, because I wanted him and me to be together.
Analogical or adaptive characters.
By children’s eyes, her husband’s shape in mind:
Miss Watson she kept pecking at me, and it got tiresome and lonesome.
Affinities, general, complex and radiating.
Look what an unthrift in the world doth spend
Shifts but his place, for still the world enjoys it;
Extinction separates and defines groups.
By-and-by they fetched the niggers in and had prayers, and then
MORPHOLOGY, between members of the same class, between parts of the
everybody was off to bed. I went up to my room with a piece of candle,
But beauty’s waste hath in the world an end,
and put it on the table. Then I set down in a chair by the window and
And kept unused the user so destroys it:
EMBRYOLOGY, laws of, explained by variations not supervening at an
tried to think of something cheerful, but it warn’t no use. I felt so
early age, and being inherited at a corresponding age.
No love toward others in that bosom sits
RUDIMENTARY ORGANS; their origin explained.
That on himself such murd’rous shame commits.
lonesome I most wished I was dead. The stars were shining, and the
For shame deny that thou bear’st love to any
leaves rustled in the woods ever so mournful; and I heard an owl, away
CHAPTER 14. RECAPITULATION AND CONCLUSION.
Recapitulation of the difficulties on the theory of Natural
Who for thyself art so unprovident.
off, who-whooing about somebody that was dead, and a whippowill and a
dog crying about somebody that was going to die; and the wind was
Recapitulation of the general and special circumstances in its
Grant if thou wilt, thou art beloved of many,
But that thou none lov’st is most evident:
Causes of the general belief in the immutability of species.
trying to whisper something to me, and I couldn’t make out what it was,
and so it made the cold shivers run over me. Then away out in the woods
For thou art so possessed with murd’rous hate,
How far the theory of natural selection may be extended.
That ’gainst thyself thou stick’st not to conspire,
Effects of its adoption on the study of Natural history.
I heard that kind of a sound that a ghost makes when it wants to tell
about something that’s on its mind and can’t make itself understood,
When on board H.M.S. ‘Beagle,’ as naturalist, I was much struck with
Seeking that beauteous roof to ruinate
Which to repair should be thy chief desire:
certain facts in the distribution of the inhabitants of South America,
and so can’t rest easy in its grave, and has to go about that way every
O change thy thought, that I may change my mind,
night grieving. I got so down-hearted and scared I did wish I had some
and in the geological relations of the present to the past inhabitants
company. Pretty soon a spider went crawling up my shoulder, and I
Shall hate be fairer lodged than gentle love?
of that continent. These facts seemed to me to throw some light on the
origin of species—that mystery of mysteries, as it has been called by
Be as thy presence is gracious and kind,
flipped it off and it lit in the candle; and before I could budge it
one of our greatest philosophers. On my return home, it occurred to me,
was all shriveled up. I didn’t need anybody to tell me that that was an
Or to thyself at least kind-hearted prove,
in 1837, that something might perhaps be made out on this question by
Make thee another self for love of me,
awful bad sign and would fetch me some bad luck, so I was scared and
most shook the clothes off of me. I got up and turned around in my
patiently accumulating and reflecting on all sorts of facts which could
That beauty still may live in thine or thee.
As fast as thou shalt wane so fast thou grow’st,
possibly have any bearing on it. After five years’ work I allowed
tracks three times and crossed my breast every time; and then I tied up
In one of thine, from that which thou departest,
myself to speculate on the subject, and drew up some short notes; these
a little lock of my hair with a thread to keep witches away. But I
I enlarged in 1844 into a sketch of the conclusions, which then seemed
hadn’t no confidence. You do that when you’ve lost a horseshoe that
And that fresh blood which youngly thou bestow’st,
to me probable: from that period to the present day I have steadily
Thou mayst call thine, when thou from youth convertest,
you’ve found, instead of nailing it up over the door, but I hadn’t ever
Herein lives wisdom, beauty, and increase,
heard anybody say it was any way to keep off bad luck when you’d killed
pursued the same object. I hope that I may be excused for entering on
Without this folly, age, and cold decay,
these personal details, as I give them to show that I have not been
I set down again, a-shaking all over, and got out my pipe for a smoke;
If all were minded so, the times should cease,
for the house was all as still as death now, and so the widow wouldn’t
hasty in coming to a decision.
know. Well, after a long time I heard the clock away off in the town go
My work is now nearly finished; but as it will take me two or three
And threescore year would make the world away:
Let those whom nature hath not made for store,
more years to complete it, and as my health is far from strong, I have
boom—boom—boom—twelve licks; and all still again—stiller than ever.
Pretty soon I heard a twig snap down in the dark amongst the
been urged to publish this Abstract. I have more especially been
Harsh, featureless, and rude, barrenly perish:
induced to do this, as Mr. Wallace, who is now studying the
Look whom she best endowed, she gave thee more;
trees—something was a stirring. I set still and listened. Directly I
could just barely hear a “_me-yow! me-yow!_” down there. That was good!
natural history of the Malay archipelago, has arrived at almost exactly
Which bounteous gift thou shouldst in bounty cherish:
She carved thee for her seal, and meant thereby,
Says I, “_me-yow! me-yow!_” as soft as I could, and then I put out the
the same general conclusions that I have on the origin of species. Last
Thou shouldst print more, not let that copy die.
light and scrambled out of the window on to the shed. Then I slipped
year he sent to me a memoir on this subject, with a request that I
When I do count the clock that tells the time,
down to the ground and crawled in among the trees, and, sure enough,
would forward it to Sir Charles Lyell, who sent it to the Linnean
Society, and it is published in the third volume of the Journal of that
there was Tom Sawyer waiting for me.
And see the brave day sunk in hideous night,
When I behold the violet past prime,
We went tiptoeing along a path amongst the trees back towards the end
Society. Sir C. Lyell and Dr. Hooker, who both knew of my work—the
And sable curls all silvered o’er with white:
latter having read my sketch of 1844—honoured me by thinking it
of the widow’s garden, stooping down so as the branches wouldn’t scrape
When lofty trees I see barren of leaves,
our heads. When we was passing by the kitchen I fell over a root and
advisable to publish, with Mr. Wallace’s excellent memoir, some brief
made a noise. We scrouched down and laid still. Miss Watson’s big
Which erst from heat did canopy the herd
This Abstract, which I now publish, must necessarily be imperfect. I
cannot here give references and authorities for my several statements;
And summer’s green all girded up in sheaves
nigger, named Jim, was setting in the kitchen door; we could see him
Borne on the bier with white and bristly beard:
and I must trust to the reader reposing some confidence in my accuracy.
pretty clear, because there was a light behind him. He got up and
stretched his neck out about a minute, listening. Then he says:
Then of thy beauty do I question make
No doubt errors will have crept in, though I hope I have always been
That thou among the wastes of time must go,
cautious in trusting to good authorities alone. I can here give only
He listened some more; then he come tiptoeing down and stood right
between us; we could a touched him, nearly. Well, likely it was minutes
the general conclusions at which I have arrived, with a few facts in
Since sweets and beauties do themselves forsake,
illustration, but which, I hope, in most cases will suffice. No one can
and minutes that there warn’t a sound, and we all there so close
And die as fast as they see others grow,
feel more sensible than I do of the necessity of hereafter publishing
And nothing ’gainst Time’s scythe can make defence
together. There was a place on my ankle that got to itching, but I
Save breed to brave him, when he takes thee hence.
in detail all the facts, with references, on which my conclusions have
dasn’t scratch it; and then my ear begun to itch; and next my back,
been grounded; and I hope in a future work to do this. For I am well
O that you were your self, but love you are
right between my shoulders. Seemed like I’d die if I couldn’t scratch.
Well, I’ve noticed that thing plenty times since. If you are with the
aware that scarcely a single point is discussed in this volume on which
No longer yours, than you yourself here live,
facts cannot be adduced, often apparently leading to conclusions
quality, or at a funeral, or trying to go to sleep when you ain’t
Against this coming end you should prepare,
sleepy—if you are anywheres where it won’t do for you to scratch, why
And your sweet semblance to some other give.
directly opposite to those at which I have arrived. A fair result can
you will itch all over in upwards of a thousand places. Pretty soon Jim
be obtained only by fully stating and balancing the facts and arguments
So should that beauty which you hold in lease
on both sides of each question; and this cannot possibly be here done.
Find no determination, then you were
“Say, who is you? Whar is you? Dog my cats ef I didn’ hear sumf’n.
Yourself again after yourself’s decease,
I much regret that want of space prevents my having the satisfaction of
Well, I know what I’s gwyne to do: I’s gwyne to set down here and
So he set down on the ground betwixt me and Tom. He leaned his back up
When your sweet issue your sweet form should bear.
acknowledging the generous assistance which I have received from very
Who lets so fair a house fall to decay,
many naturalists, some of them personally unknown to me. I cannot,
against a tree, and stretched his legs out till one of them most
touched one of mine. My nose begun to itch. It itched till the tears
let this opportunity pass without expressing my deep obligations to Dr.
Which husbandry in honour might uphold,
Hooker, who for the last fifteen years has aided me in every possible
Against the stormy gusts of winter’s day
come into my eyes. But I dasn’t scratch. Then it begun to itch on the
inside. Next I got to itching underneath. I didn’t know how I was going
way by his large stores of knowledge and his excellent judgment.
And barren rage of death’s eternal cold?
O none but unthrifts, dear my love you know,
In considering the Origin of Species, it is quite conceivable that a
to set still. This miserableness went on as much as six or seven
naturalist, reflecting on the mutual affinities of organic beings, on
You had a father, let your son say so.
minutes; but it seemed a sight longer than that. I was itching in
eleven different places now. I reckoned I couldn’t stand it more’n a
their embryological relations, their geographical distribution,
Not from the stars do I my judgement pluck,
minute longer, but I set my teeth hard and got ready to try. Just then
And yet methinks I have astronomy,
geological succession, and other such facts, might come to the
conclusion that each species had not been independently created, but
But not to tell of good, or evil luck,
Jim begun to breathe heavy; next he begun to snore—and then I was
pretty soon comfortable again.
had descended, like varieties, from other species. Nevertheless, such a
Of plagues, of dearths, or seasons’ quality,
conclusion, even if well founded, would be unsatisfactory, until it
Nor can I fortune to brief minutes tell;
Tom he made a sign to me—kind of a little noise with his mouth—and we
Pointing to each his thunder, rain and wind,
could be shown how the innumerable species inhabiting this world have
went creeping away on our hands and knees. When we was ten foot off Tom
been modified, so as to acquire that perfection of structure and
Or say with princes if it shall go well
whispered to me, and wanted to tie Jim to the tree for fun. But I said
coadaptation which most justly excites our admiration. Naturalists
By oft predict that I in heaven find.
no; he might wake and make a disturbance, and then they’d find out I
But from thine eyes my knowledge I derive,
continually refer to external conditions, such as climate, food, etc.,
warn’t in. Then Tom said he hadn’t got candles enough, and he would
slip in the kitchen and get some more. I didn’t want him to try. I said
as the only possible cause of variation. In one very limited sense, as
And constant stars in them I read such art
we shall hereafter see, this may be true; but it is preposterous to
As truth and beauty shall together thrive
Jim might wake up and come. But Tom wanted to resk it; so we slid in
there and got three candles, and Tom laid five cents on the table for
attribute to mere external conditions, the structure, for instance, of
If from thyself, to store thou wouldst convert:
Or else of thee this I prognosticate,
pay. Then we got out, and I was in a sweat to get away; but nothing
the woodpecker, with its feet, tail, beak, and tongue, so admirably
Thy end is truth’s and beauty’s doom and date.
adapted to catch insects under the bark of trees. In the case of the
would do Tom but he must crawl to where Jim was, on his hands and
When I consider everything that grows
knees, and play something on him. I waited, and it seemed a good while,
misseltoe, which draws its nourishment from certain trees, which has
seeds that must be transported by certain birds, and which has flowers
everything was so still and lonesome.
Holds in perfection but a little moment.
As soon as Tom was back we cut along the path, around the garden fence,
with separate sexes absolutely requiring the agency of certain insects
That this huge stage presenteth nought but shows
to bring pollen from one flower to the other, it is equally
Whereon the stars in secret influence comment.
and by-and-by fetched up on the steep top of the hill the other side of
preposterous to account for the structure of this parasite, with its
the house. Tom said he slipped Jim’s hat off of his head and hung it on
When I perceive that men as plants increase,
a limb right over him, and Jim stirred a little, but he didn’t wake.
Cheered and checked even by the self-same sky:
relations to several distinct organic beings, by the effects of
Vaunt in their youthful sap, at height decrease,
external conditions, or of habit, or of the volition of the plant
Afterwards Jim said the witches bewitched him and put him in a trance,
And wear their brave state out of memory.
The author of the ‘Vestiges of Creation’ would, I presume, say that,
and rode him all over the State, and then set him under the trees
after a certain unknown number of
Then the conceit of this inconstant stay,
again, and hung his hat on a limb to show who done it. And next time
generations, some bird had given birth to a woodpecker, and some plant
Sets you most rich in youth before my sight,
Jim told it he said they rode him down to New Orleans; and, after that,
Where wasteful Time debateth with Decay
every time he told it he spread it more and more, till by-and-by he
to the misseltoe, and that these had been produced perfect as we now
said they rode him all over the world, and tired him most to death, and
see them; but this assumption seems to me to be no explanation, for it
To change your day of youth to sullied night,
leaves the case of the coadaptations of organic beings to each other
his back was all over saddle-boils. Jim was monstrous proud about it,
And all in war with Time for love of you,
As he takes from you, I engraft you new.
and to their physical conditions of life, untouched and unexplained.
and he got so he wouldn’t hardly notice the other niggers. Niggers
would come miles to hear Jim tell about it, and he was more looked up
It is, therefore, of the highest importance to gain a clear insight
But wherefore do not you a mightier way
Make war upon this bloody tyrant Time?
to than any nigger in that country. Strange niggers would stand with
into the means of modification and coadaptation. At the commencement of
my observations it seemed to me probable that a careful study of
their mouths open and look him all over, same as if he was a wonder.
And fortify yourself in your decay
domesticated animals and of cultivated plants would offer the best
With means more blessed than my barren rhyme?
Niggers is always talking about witches in the dark by the kitchen
chance of making out this obscure problem. Nor have I been
fire; but whenever one was talking and letting on to know all about
Now stand you on the top of happy hours,
such things, Jim would happen in and say, “Hm! What you know ’bout
disappointed; in this and in all other perplexing cases I have
And many maiden gardens yet unset,
witches?” and that nigger was corked up and had to take a back seat.
invariably found that our knowledge, imperfect though it be, of
With virtuous wish would bear you living flowers,
variation under domestication, afforded the best and safest clue. I may
Jim always kept that five-center piece round his neck with a string,
Much liker than your painted counterfeit:
and said it was a charm the devil give to him with his own hands, and
venture to express my conviction of the high value of such studies,
So should the lines of life that life repair
Which this (Time’s pencil) or my pupil pen
although they have been very commonly neglected by naturalists.
told him he could cure anybody with it and fetch witches whenever he
Neither in inward worth nor outward fair
wanted to just by saying something to it; but he never told what it was
From these considerations, I shall devote the first chapter of this
Abstract to Variation under Domestication. We shall thus see that a
he said to it. Niggers would come from all around there and give Jim
Can make you live yourself in eyes of men.
To give away yourself, keeps yourself still,
large amount of hereditary modification is at least possible, and, what
anything they had, just for a sight of that five-center piece; but they
And you must live drawn by your own sweet skill.
is equally or more important, we shall see how great is the power of
wouldn’t touch it, because the devil had had his hands on it. Jim was
Who will believe my verse in time to come
man in accumulating by his Selection successive slight variations. I
most ruined for a servant, because he got stuck up on account of having
If it were filled with your most high deserts?
seen the devil and been rode by witches.
will then pass on to the variability of species in a state of nature;
Well, when Tom and me got to the edge of the hilltop we looked away
Though yet heaven knows it is but as a tomb
but I shall, unfortunately, be compelled to treat this subject far too
Which hides your life, and shows not half your parts:
briefly, as it can be treated properly only by giving long catalogues
down into the village and could see three or four lights twinkling,
of facts. We shall, however, be enabled to discuss what circumstances
where there was sick folks, maybe; and the stars over us was sparkling
If I could write the beauty of your eyes,
are most favourable to variation. In the next chapter the Struggle for
And in fresh numbers number all your graces,
ever so fine; and down by the village was the river, a whole mile
Existence amongst all organic beings throughout the world, which
The age to come would say this poet lies,
broad, and awful still and grand. We went down the hill and found Jo
Harper and Ben Rogers, and two or three more of the boys, hid in the
Such heavenly touches ne’er touched earthly faces.
inevitably follows from their high geometrical powers of
increase, will be treated of. This is the doctrine of Malthus, applied
So should my papers (yellowed with their age)
old tanyard. So we unhitched a skiff and pulled down the river two mile
Be scorned, like old men of less truth than tongue,
and a half, to the big scar on the hillside, and went ashore.
to the whole animal and vegetable kingdoms. As many more individuals of
each species are born than can possibly survive; and as, consequently,
And your true rights be termed a poet’s rage,
We went to a clump of bushes, and Tom made everybody swear to keep the
there is a frequently recurring struggle for existence, it follows that
And stretched metre of an antique song.
secret, and then showed them a hole in the hill, right in the thickest
But were some child of yours alive that time,
part of the bushes. Then we lit the candles, and crawled in on our
any being, if it vary however slightly in any manner profitable to
itself, under the complex and sometimes varying conditions of life,
hands and knees. We went about two hundred yards, and then the cave
You should live twice,—in it, and in my rhyme.
opened up. Tom poked about amongst the passages, and pretty soon ducked
Shall I compare thee to a summer’s day?
will have a better chance of surviving, and thus be _naturally
under a wall where you wouldn’t a noticed that there was a hole. We
selected_. From the strong principle of inheritance, any selected
Thou art more lovely and more temperate:
variety will tend to propagate its new and modified form.
Rough winds do shake the darling buds of May,
went along a narrow place and got into a kind of room, all damp and
And summer’s lease hath all too short a date:
sweaty and cold, and there we stopped. Tom says:
This fundamental subject of Natural Selection will be treated at some
length in the fourth chapter; and we shall then see how Natural
“Now, we’ll start this band of robbers and call it Tom Sawyer’s Gang.
Sometime too hot the eye of heaven shines,
Selection almost inevitably causes much Extinction of the less improved
And often is his gold complexion dimmed,
Everybody that wants to join has got to take an oath, and write his
forms of life and induces what I have called Divergence of Character.
Everybody was willing. So Tom got out a sheet of paper that he had
And every fair from fair sometime declines,
By chance, or nature’s changing course untrimmed:
In the next chapter I shall discuss the complex and little known laws
wrote the oath on, and read it. It swore every boy to stick to the
of variation and of correlation of growth. In the four succeeding
But thy eternal summer shall not fade,
band, and never tell any of the secrets; and if anybody done anything
chapters, the most apparent and gravest difficulties on the theory will
to any boy in the band, whichever boy was ordered to kill that person
Nor lose possession of that fair thou ow’st,
be given: namely, first, the difficulties of transitions, or in
Nor shall death brag thou wand’rest in his shade,
and his family must do it, and he mustn’t eat and he mustn’t sleep till
he had killed them and hacked a cross in their breasts, which was the
understanding how a simple being or a simple organ can be changed and
When in eternal lines to time thou grow’st,
sign of the band. And nobody that didn’t belong to the band could use
perfected into a highly developed being or elaborately constructed
So long as men can breathe or eyes can see,
organ; secondly the subject of Instinct, or the mental powers of
So long lives this, and this gives life to thee.
that mark, and if he did he must be sued; and if he done it again he
animals, thirdly, Hybridism, or the infertility of species and the
must be killed. And if anybody that belonged to the band told the
Devouring Time blunt thou the lion’s paws,
And make the earth devour her own sweet brood,
fertility of varieties when intercrossed; and fourthly, the
secrets, he must have his throat cut, and then have his carcass burnt
Pluck the keen teeth from the fierce tiger’s jaws,
up and the ashes scattered all around, and his name blotted off of the
imperfection of the Geological Record. In the next chapter I shall
And burn the long-lived phoenix, in her blood,
consider the geological succession of organic beings throughout time;
list with blood and never mentioned again by the gang, but have a curse
put on it and be forgot forever.
Make glad and sorry seasons as thou fleet’st,
in the eleventh and twelfth, their geographical distribution throughout
And do whate’er thou wilt swift-footed Time
space; in the thirteenth, their classification or mutual affinities,
Everybody said it was a real beautiful oath, and asked Tom if he got it
To the wide world and all her fading sweets:
both when mature and in an embryonic condition. In the last chapter I
out of his own head. He said, some of it, but the rest was out of
pirate-books and robber-books, and every gang that was high-toned had
brief recapitulation of the whole work, and a few concluding remarks.
But I forbid thee one most heinous crime,
O carve not with thy hours my love’s fair brow,
Some thought it would be good to kill the _families_ of boys that told
No one ought to feel surprise at much remaining as yet unexplained in
regard to the origin of species and varieties, if he makes due
the secrets. Tom said it was a good idea, so he took a pencil and wrote
Nor draw no lines there with thine antique pen,
Him in thy course untainted do allow,
“Here’s Huck Finn, he hain’t got no family; what you going to do ’bout
allowance for our profound ignorance in regard to the mutual relations
“Well, hain’t he got a father?” says Tom Sawyer.
of all the beings which live around us. Who can explain why one species
For beauty’s pattern to succeeding men.
ranges widely and is very numerous, and why another allied species has
Yet do thy worst, old Time; despite thy wrong,
“Yes, he’s got a father, but you can’t never find him these days. He
a narrow range and is rare? Yet these relations are of the highest
My love shall in my verse ever live young.
used to lay drunk with the hogs in the tanyard, but he hain’t been seen
importance, for they determine the present welfare, and, as I believe,
in these parts for a year or more.”
A woman’s face with nature’s own hand painted,
They talked it over, and they was going to rule me out, because they
the future success and modification of every inhabitant of this world.
Hast thou the master mistress of my passion,
said every boy must have a family or somebody to kill, or else it
A woman’s gentle heart but not acquainted
Still less do we know of the mutual relations of the innumerable
inhabitants of the world during the many past geological epochs in its
With shifting change as is false women’s fashion,
wouldn’t be fair and square for the others. Well, nobody could think of
history. Although much remains obscure, and will long remain obscure, I
An eye more bright than theirs, less false in rolling:
anything to do—everybody was stumped, and set still. I was most ready
Gilding the object whereupon it gazeth,
can entertain no doubt, after the most deliberate study and
to cry; but all at once I thought of a way, and so I offered them Miss
dispassionate judgment of which I am capable, that the view which most
A man in hue all hues in his controlling,
Watson—they could kill her. Everybody said:
Which steals men’s eyes and women’s souls amazeth.
“Oh, she’ll do. That’s all right. Huck can come in.”
naturalists entertain, and which I formerly entertained—namely, that
each species has been independently created—is erroneous. I am fully
Then they all stuck a pin in their fingers to get blood to sign with,
And for a woman wert thou first created,
Till nature as she wrought thee fell a-doting,
and I made my mark on the paper.
convinced that species are not immutable; but that those belonging to
And by addition me of thee defeated,
what are called the same genera are lineal descendants of some other
“Now,” says Ben Rogers, “what’s the line of business of this Gang?”
“Nothing only robbery and murder,” Tom said.
and generally extinct species, in the same manner as the acknowledged
By adding one thing to my purpose nothing.
But since she pricked thee out for women’s pleasure,
“But who are we going to rob?—houses, or cattle, or—”
varieties of any one species are the descendants of that species.
Mine be thy love and thy love’s use their treasure.
Furthermore, I am convinced that Natural Selection has been the main
“Stuff! stealing cattle and such things ain’t robbery; it’s burglary,”
but not exclusive means of modification.
says Tom Sawyer. “We ain’t burglars. That ain’t no sort of style. We
So is it not with me as with that muse,
VARIATION UNDER DOMESTICATION.
Stirred by a painted beauty to his verse,
are highwaymen. We stop stages and carriages on the road, with masks
on, and kill the people and take their watches and money.”
Causes of Variability. Effects of Habit. Correlation of Growth.
Who heaven it self for ornament doth use,
“Must we always kill the people?”
And every fair with his fair doth rehearse,
Inheritance. Character of Domestic Varieties. Difficulty of
Making a couplement of proud compare
distinguishing between Varieties and Species. Origin of Domestic
“Oh, certainly. It’s best. Some authorities think different, but mostly
With sun and moon, with earth and sea’s rich gems:
it’s considered best to kill them—except some that you bring to the
Varieties from one or more Species. Domestic Pigeons, their Differences
With April’s first-born flowers and all things rare,
and Origin. Principle of Selection anciently followed, its Effects.
cave here, and keep them till they’re ransomed.”
Methodical and Unconscious Selection. Unknown Origin of our Domestic
“I don’t know. But that’s what they do. I’ve seen it in books; and so
That heaven’s air in this huge rondure hems.
Productions. Circumstances favourable to Man’s power of Selection.
of course that’s what we’ve got to do.”
O let me true in love but truly write,
“But how can we do it if we don’t know what it is?”
And then believe me, my love is as fair,
When we look to the individuals of the same variety or sub-variety of
“Why, blame it all, we’ve _got_ to do it. Don’t I tell you it’s in the
our older cultivated plants and animals, one of the first points which
As any mother’s child, though not so bright
As those gold candles fixed in heaven’s air:
books? Do you want to go to doing different from what’s in the books,
strikes us, is, that they generally differ much more from each other,
and get things all muddled up?”
Let them say more that like of hearsay well,
than do the individuals of any one species or variety in a state of
nature. When we reflect on the vast diversity of the plants and animals
“Oh, that’s all very fine to _say_, Tom Sawyer, but how in the nation
I will not praise that purpose not to sell.
which have been cultivated, and which have varied during all ages under
My glass shall not persuade me I am old,
are these fellows going to be ransomed if we don’t know how to do it to
the most different climates and treatment, I think we are driven to
them?—that’s the thing _I_ want to get at. Now, what do you _reckon_ it
So long as youth and thou are of one date,
“Well, I don’t know. But per’aps if we keep them till they’re ransomed,
But when in thee time’s furrows I behold,
conclude that this greater variability is simply due to our domestic
Then look I death my days should expiate.
it means that we keep them till they’re dead.”
productions having been raised under conditions of life not so uniform
“Now, that’s something _like_. That’ll answer. Why couldn’t you said
For all that beauty that doth cover thee,
as, and somewhat different from, those to which the parent-species have
Is but the seemly raiment of my heart,
that before? We’ll keep them till they’re ransomed to death; and a
been exposed under nature. There is, also, I think, some probability in
the view propounded by Andrew Knight, that this variability may be
Which in thy breast doth live, as thine in me,
bothersome lot they’ll be, too—eating up everything, and always trying
“How you talk, Ben Rogers. How can they get loose when there’s a guard
partly connected with excess of food. It seems pretty clear that
How can I then be elder than thou art?
O therefore love be of thyself so wary,
over them, ready to shoot them down if they move a peg?”
organic beings must be exposed during several generations to the new
“A guard! Well, that _is_ good. So somebody’s got to set up all night
As I not for my self, but for thee will,
conditions of life to cause any appreciable amount of variation; and
Bearing thy heart which I will keep so chary
that when the organisation has once begun to vary, it generally
and never get any sleep, just so as to watch them. I think that’s
foolishness. Why can’t a body take a club and ransom them as soon as
As tender nurse her babe from faring ill.
continues to vary for many generations.
Presume not on thy heart when mine is slain,
No case is on record of a variable being ceasing to be variable under
“Because it ain’t in the books so—that’s why. Now, Ben Rogers, do you
Thou gav’st me thine not to give back again.
cultivation. Our oldest cultivated plants, such as wheat, still often
want to do things regular, or don’t you?—that’s the idea. Don’t you
yield new varieties: our oldest domesticated animals are still capable
reckon that the people that made the books knows what’s the correct
As an unperfect actor on the stage,
of rapid improvement or modification.
thing to do? Do you reckon _you_ can learn ’em anything? Not by a good
Who with his fear is put beside his part,
It has been disputed at what period of life the causes of variability,
Or some fierce thing replete with too much rage,
deal. No, sir, we’ll just go on and ransom them in the regular way.”
whatever they may be, generally act; whether during the early or late
“All right. I don’t mind; but I say it’s a fool way, anyhow. Say, do we
Whose strength’s abundance weakens his own heart;
period of development of the embryo, or at the instant of conception.
So I for fear of trust, forget to say,
“Well, Ben Rogers, if I was as ignorant as you I wouldn’t let on. Kill
The perfect ceremony of love’s rite,
the women? No; nobody ever saw anything in the books like that. You
Geoffroy St. Hilaire’s experiments show that unnatural treatment of the
fetch them to the cave, and you’re always as polite as pie to them; and
embryo causes monstrosities; and monstrosities cannot be separated by
And in mine own love’s strength seem to decay,
O’ercharged with burthen of mine own love’s might:
by-and-by they fall in love with you, and never want to go home any
any clear line of distinction from mere variations. But I am strongly
O let my looks be then the eloquence,
inclined to suspect that the most frequent cause of variability may be
“Well, if that’s the way I’m agreed, but I don’t take no stock in it.
Mighty soon we’ll have the cave so cluttered up with women, and fellows
attributed to the male and female reproductive elements having been
And dumb presagers of my speaking breast,
Who plead for love, and look for recompense,
affected prior to the act of conception. Several reasons make me
waiting to be ransomed, that there won’t be no place for the robbers.
But go ahead, I ain’t got nothing to say.”
believe in this; but the chief one is the remarkable effect which
More than that tongue that more hath more expressed.
Little Tommy Barnes was asleep now, and when they waked him up he was
confinement or cultivation has on the functions of the reproductive
O learn to read what silent love hath writ,
scared, and cried, and said he wanted to go home to his ma, and didn’t
system; this system appearing to be far more susceptible than any other
To hear with eyes belongs to love’s fine wit.
Mine eye hath played the painter and hath stelled,
part of the organisation, to the action of any change in the conditions
So they all made fun of him, and called him cry-baby, and that made him
Thy beauty’s form in table of my heart,
mad, and he said he would go straight and tell all the secrets. But Tom
of life. Nothing is more easy than to tame an animal, and few things
more difficult than to get it to breed freely under confinement, even
My body is the frame wherein ’tis held,
give him five cents to keep quiet, and said we would all go home and
meet next week, and rob somebody and kill some people.
And perspective it is best painter’s art.
in the many cases when the male and female unite. How many animals
there are which will not breed, though living long under not very close
Ben Rogers said he couldn’t get out much, only Sundays, and so he
For through the painter must you see his skill,
To find where your true image pictured lies,
wanted to begin next Sunday; but all the boys said it would be wicked
confinement in their native country! This is generally attributed to
to do it on Sunday, and that settled the thing. They agreed to get
Which in my bosom’s shop is hanging still,
vitiated instincts; but how many cultivated plants display the utmost
That hath his windows glazed with thine eyes:
vigour, and yet rarely or never seed! In some few such cases it has
together and fix a day as soon as they could, and then we elected Tom
Sawyer first captain and Jo Harper second captain of the Gang, and so
been found out that very trifling changes, such as a little more or
Now see what good turns eyes for eyes have done,
less water at some particular period of growth, will determine whether
Mine eyes have drawn thy shape, and thine for me
I clumb up the shed and crept into my window just before day was
breaking. My new clothes was all greased up and clayey, and I was
Are windows to my breast, where-through the sun
or not the plant sets a seed. I cannot here enter on the copious
Well, I got a good going-over in the morning from old Miss Watson on
details which I have collected on
Delights to peep, to gaze therein on thee;
this curious subject; but to show how singular the laws are which
Yet eyes this cunning want to grace their art,
account of my clothes; but the widow she didn’t scold, but only cleaned
They draw but what they see, know not the heart.
off the grease and clay, and looked so sorry that I thought I would
determine the reproduction of animals under confinement, I may just
Let those who are in favour with their stars,
mention that carnivorous animals, even from the tropics, breed in this
behave a while if I could. Then Miss Watson she took me in the closet
country pretty freely under confinement, with the exception of the
Of public honour and proud titles boast,
and prayed, but nothing come of it. She told me to pray every day, and
whatever I asked for I would get it. But it warn’t so. I tried it. Once
Whilst I whom fortune of such triumph bars
plantigrades or bear family; whereas, carnivorous birds, with the
Unlooked for joy in that I honour most;
I got a fish-line, but no hooks. It warn’t any good to me without
rarest exceptions, hardly ever lay fertile eggs. Many exotic plants
have pollen utterly worthless, in the same exact condition as in the
hooks. I tried for the hooks three or four times, but somehow I
Great princes’ favourites their fair leaves spread,
couldn’t make it work. By-and-by, one day, I asked Miss Watson to try
But as the marigold at the sun’s eye,
most sterile hybrids. When, on the one hand, we see domesticated
animals and plants, though often weak and sickly, yet breeding quite
And in themselves their pride lies buried,
for me, but she said I was a fool. She never told me why, and I
I set down one time back in the woods, and had a long think about it. I
For at a frown they in their glory die.
freely under confinement; and when, on the other hand, we see
says to myself, if a body can get anything they pray for, why don’t
The painful warrior famoused for fight,
individuals, though taken young from a state of nature, perfectly
tamed, long-lived, and healthy (of which I could give numerous
Deacon Winn get back the money he lost on pork? Why can’t the widow get
After a thousand victories once foiled,
Is from the book of honour razed quite,
back her silver snuffbox that was stole? Why can’t Miss Watson fat up?
instances), yet having their reproductive system so seriously affected
No, says I to myself, there ain’t nothing in it. I went and told the
by unperceived causes as to fail in acting, we need not be surprised at
And all the rest forgot for which he toiled:
Then happy I that love and am beloved
this system, when it does act under confinement, acting not quite
widow about it, and she said the thing a body could get by praying for
Where I may not remove nor be removed.
regularly, and producing offspring not perfectly like their parents or
it was “spiritual gifts.” This was too many for me, but she told me
Sterility has been said to be the bane of horticulture; but on this
what she meant—I must help other people, and do everything I could for
Lord of my love, to whom in vassalage
Thy merit hath my duty strongly knit;
other people, and look out for them all the time, and never think about
view we owe variability to the same cause which produces sterility; and
To thee I send this written embassage
myself. This was including Miss Watson, as I took it. I went out in the
variability is the source of all the choicest productions of the
woods and turned it over in my mind a long time, but I couldn’t see no
garden. I may add, that as some organisms will breed most freely under
To witness duty, not to show my wit.
the most unnatural conditions (for instance, the rabbit and ferret kept
Duty so great, which wit so poor as mine
advantage about it—except for the other people; so at last I reckoned I
May make seem bare, in wanting words to show it;
wouldn’t worry about it any more, but just let it go. Sometimes the
in hutches), showing that their reproductive system has not been thus
affected; so will some animals and plants withstand domestication or
widow would take me one side and talk about Providence in a way to make
But that I hope some good conceit of thine
In thy soul’s thought (all naked) will bestow it:
a body’s mouth water; but maybe next day Miss Watson would take hold
cultivation, and vary very slightly—perhaps hardly more than in a state
and knock it all down again. I judged I could see that there was two
A long list could easily be given of “sporting plants;” by this term
Till whatsoever star that guides my moving,
Points on me graciously with fair aspect,
Providences, and a poor chap would stand considerable show with the
gardeners mean a single bud or offset, which suddenly assumes a new and
widow’s Providence, but if Miss Watson’s got him there warn’t no help
And puts apparel on my tattered loving,
sometimes very different character from that of the rest of the plant.
Such buds can be propagated by grafting, etc., and sometimes by seed.
for him any more. I thought it all out, and reckoned I would belong to
To show me worthy of thy sweet respect,
These “sports” are extremely rare under nature, but far from rare under
Then may I dare to boast how I do love thee,
the widow’s if he wanted me, though I couldn’t make out how he was
a-going to be any better off then than what he was before, seeing I was
cultivation; and in this case we see that the treatment of the parent
Till then, not show my head where thou mayst prove me.
has affected a bud or offset, and not the ovules or pollen. But it is
so ignorant, and so kind of low-down and ornery.
Weary with toil, I haste me to my bed,
the opinion of most physiologists that there is no essential difference
The dear respose for limbs with travel tired,
Pap he hadn’t been seen for more than a year, and that was comfortable
But then begins a journey in my head
between a bud and an ovule in their earliest stages of formation; so
for me; I didn’t want to see him no more. He used to always whale me
when he was sober and could get his hands on me; though I used to take
To work my mind, when body’s work’s expired.
that, in fact, “sports” support my view, that variability may be
largely attributed to the ovules or pollen, or to both, having been
to the woods most of the time when he was around. Well, about this time
For then my thoughts, from far where I abide,
Intend a zealous pilgrimage to thee,
affected by the treatment of the parent prior to the act of conception.
he was found in the river drownded, about twelve mile above town, so
And keep my drooping eyelids open wide,
These cases anyhow show that variation is not necessarily connected, as
people said. They judged it was him, anyway; said this drownded man was
some authors have supposed, with the act of generation.
Looking on darkness which the blind do see.
just his size, and was ragged, and had uncommon long hair, which was
Seedlings from the same fruit, and the young of the same litter,
all like pap; but they couldn’t make nothing out of the face, because
Save that my soul’s imaginary sight
it had been in the water so long it warn’t much like a face at all.
sometimes differ considerably from each other, though both the young
Presents thy shadow to my sightless view,
and the parents, as Müller has remarked, have apparently been exposed
Which like a jewel (hung in ghastly night)
They said he was floating on his back in the water. They took him and
buried him on the bank. But I warn’t comfortable long, because I
Makes black night beauteous, and her old face new.
to exactly the same conditions of life; and this shows how unimportant
happened to think of something. I knowed mighty well that a drownded
the direct effects of the conditions of life are in comparison with the
Lo thus by day my limbs, by night my mind,
For thee, and for my self, no quiet find.
laws of reproduction, and of growth, and of inheritance; for had the
man don’t float on his back, but on his face. So I knowed, then, that
this warn’t pap, but a woman dressed up in a man’s clothes. So I was
How can I then return in happy plight
action of the conditions been direct, if any of the young had varied,
uncomfortable again. I judged the old man would turn up again
all would probably have varied in the same manner. To judge how much,
That am debarred the benefit of rest?
When day’s oppression is not eased by night,
in the case of any variation, we should attribute to the direct action
by-and-by, though I wished he wouldn’t.
But day by night and night by day oppressed.
of heat, moisture, light, food, etc., is most difficult: my impression
We played robber now and then about a month, and then I resigned. All
is, that with animals such agencies have produced very little direct
And each (though enemies to either’s reign)
the boys did. We hadn’t robbed nobody, hadn’t killed any people, but
Do in consent shake hands to torture me,
effect, though apparently more in the case of plants. Under this point
only just pretended. We used to hop out of the woods and go charging
down on hog-drivers and women in carts taking garden stuff to market,
of view, Mr. Buckman’s recent experiments on plants seem extremely
The one by toil, the other to complain
valuable. When all or nearly all the individuals exposed to certain
but we never hived any of them. Tom Sawyer called the hogs “ingots,”
How far I toil, still farther off from thee.
I tell the day to please him thou art bright,
and he called the turnips and stuff “julery,” and we would go to the
conditions are affected in the same way, the change at first appears to
be directly due to such conditions; but in some cases it can be shown
And dost him grace when clouds do blot the heaven:
cave and powwow over what we had done, and how many people we had
that quite opposite conditions produce
So flatter I the swart-complexioned night,
killed and marked. But I couldn’t see no profit in it. One time Tom
When sparkling stars twire not thou gild’st the even.
similar changes of structure. Nevertheless some slight amount of change
sent a boy to run about town with a blazing stick, which he called a
slogan (which was the sign for the Gang to get together), and then he
may, I think, be attributed to the direct action of the conditions of
But day doth daily draw my sorrows longer,
life—as, in some cases, increased size from amount of food, colour from
said he had got secret news by his spies that next day a whole parcel
And night doth nightly make grief’s length seem stronger
particular kinds of food and from light, and perhaps the thickness of
of Spanish merchants and rich A-rabs was going to camp in Cave Hollow
When in disgrace with fortune and men’s eyes,
I all alone beweep my outcast state,
Habit also has a decided influence, as in the period of flowering with
with two hundred elephants, and six hundred camels, and over a thousand
plants when transported from one climate to another. In animals it has
And trouble deaf heaven with my bootless cries,
“sumter” mules, all loaded down with di’monds, and they didn’t have
And look upon my self and curse my fate,
a more marked effect; for instance, I find in the domestic duck that
only a guard of four hundred soldiers, and so we would lay in
Wishing me like to one more rich in hope,
the bones of the wing weigh less and the bones of the leg more, in
ambuscade, as he called it, and kill the lot and scoop the things. He
said we must slick up our swords and guns, and get ready. He never
proportion to the whole skeleton, than do the same bones in the
Featured like him, like him with friends possessed,
could go after even a turnip-cart but he must have the swords and guns
Desiring this man’s art, and that man’s scope,
wild-duck; and I presume that this change may be safely attributed to
With what I most enjoy contented least,
the domestic duck flying much less, and walking more, than its wild
all scoured up for it, though they was only lath and broomsticks, and
parent. The great and inherited development of the udders in cows and
you might scour at them till you rotted, and then they warn’t worth a
Yet in these thoughts my self almost despising,
goats in countries where they are habitually milked, in comparison with
Haply I think on thee, and then my state,
mouthful of ashes more than what they was before. I didn’t believe we
could lick such a crowd of Spaniards and A-rabs, but I wanted to see
(Like to the lark at break of day arising
the state of these organs in other countries, is another instance of
From sullen earth) sings hymns at heaven’s gate,
the effect of use. Not a single domestic animal can be named which has
the camels and elephants, so I was on hand next day, Saturday, in the
not in some country drooping ears; and the view suggested by some
ambuscade; and when we got the word we rushed out of the woods and down
For thy sweet love remembered such wealth brings,
the hill. But there warn’t no Spaniards and A-rabs, and there warn’t no
That then I scorn to change my state with kings.
authors, that the drooping is due to the disuse of the muscles of the
camels nor no elephants. It warn’t anything but a Sunday-school picnic,
ear, from the animals not being much alarmed by danger, seems probable.
When to the sessions of sweet silent thought,
There are many laws regulating variation, some few of which can be
and only a primer-class at that. We busted it up, and chased the
I summon up remembrance of things past,
children up the hollow; but we never got anything but some doughnuts
dimly seen, and will be hereafter briefly mentioned. I will here only
I sigh the lack of many a thing I sought,
and jam, though Ben Rogers got a rag doll, and Jo Harper got a
allude to what may be called correlation of growth. Any change in the
And with old woes new wail my dear time’s waste:
hymn-book and a tract; and then the teacher charged in, and made us
embryo or larva will almost certainly entail changes in the mature
Then can I drown an eye (unused to flow)
animal. In monstrosities, the correlations between quite distinct parts
I didn’t see no di’monds, and I told Tom Sawyer so. He said there was
For precious friends hid in death’s dateless night,
loads of them there, anyway; and he said there was A-rabs there, too,
And weep afresh love’s long since cancelled woe,
are very curious; and many instances are given in Isidore Geoffroy St.
and elephants and things. I said, why couldn’t we see them, then? He
Hilaire’s great work on this subject. Breeders believe that long limbs
And moan th’ expense of many a vanished sight.
are almost always accompanied by an elongated head. Some instances of
said if I warn’t so ignorant, but had read a book called Don Quixote, I
Then can I grieve at grievances foregone,
And heavily from woe to woe tell o’er
would know without asking. He said it was all done by enchantment. He
correlation are quite whimsical; thus
The sad account of fore-bemoaned moan,
said there was hundreds of soldiers there, and elephants and treasure,
cats with blue eyes are invariably deaf; colour and constitutional
peculiarities go together, of which many remarkable cases could be
and so on, but we had enemies which he called magicians; and they had
Which I new pay as if not paid before.
given amongst animals and plants. From the facts collected by
But if the while I think on thee (dear friend)
turned the whole thing into an infant Sunday-school, just out of spite.
All losses are restored, and sorrows end.
Heusinger, it appears that white sheep and pigs are differently
I said, all right; then the thing for us to do was to go for the
Thy bosom is endeared with all hearts,
magicians. Tom Sawyer said I was a numskull.
affected from coloured individuals by certain vegetable poisons.
Which I by lacking have supposed dead,
Hairless dogs have imperfect teeth; long-haired and coarse-haired
“Why,” said he, “a magician could call up a lot of genies, and they
would hash you up like nothing before you could say Jack Robinson. They
And there reigns love and all love’s loving parts,
animals are apt to have, as is asserted, long or many horns; pigeons
And all those friends which I thought buried.
with feathered feet have skin between their outer toes; pigeons with
are as tall as a tree and as big around as a church.”
How many a holy and obsequious tear
short beaks have small feet, and those with long beaks large feet.
“Well,” I says, “s’pose we got some genies to help _us_—can’t we lick
Hence, if man goes on selecting, and thus augmenting, any peculiarity,
“I don’t know. How do _they_ get them?”
Hath dear religious love stol’n from mine eye,
“Why, they rub an old tin lamp or an iron ring, and then the genies
As interest of the dead, which now appear,
he will almost certainly unconsciously modify other parts of the
structure, owing to the mysterious laws of the correlation of growth.
come tearing in, with the thunder and lightning a-ripping around and
But things removed that hidden in thee lie.
the smoke a-rolling, and everything they’re told to do they up and do
The result of the various, quite unknown, or dimly seen laws of
Thou art the grave where buried love doth live,
it. They don’t think nothing of pulling a shot-tower up by the roots,
variation is infinitely complex and diversified. It is well worth while
Hung with the trophies of my lovers gone,
Who all their parts of me to thee did give,
carefully to study the several treatises published on some of our old
and belting a Sunday-school superintendent over the head with it—or any
“Who makes them tear around so?”
cultivated plants, as on the hyacinth, potato, even the dahlia, etc.;
That due of many, now is thine alone.
“Why, whoever rubs the lamp or the ring. They belong to whoever rubs
and it is really surprising to note the endless points in structure and
Their images I loved, I view in thee,
And thou, all they, hast all the all of me.
the lamp or the ring, and they’ve got to do whatever he says. If he
constitution in which the varieties and sub-varieties differ slightly
tells them to build a palace forty miles long out of di’monds, and fill
from each other. The whole organisation seems to have become plastic,
If thou survive my well-contented day,
it full of chewing-gum, or whatever you want, and fetch an emperor’s
and tends to depart in some small degree from that of the parental
When that churl death my bones with dust shall cover
daughter from China for you to marry, they’ve got to do it—and they’ve
And shalt by fortune once more re-survey
Any variation which is not inherited is unimportant for us. But the
These poor rude lines of thy deceased lover:
got to do it before sun-up next morning, too. And more: they’ve got to
number and diversity of inheritable deviations of structure, both those
of slight and those of considerable physiological importance, is
waltz that palace around over the country wherever you want it, you
Compare them with the bett’ring of the time,
And though they be outstripped by every pen,
endless. Dr. Prosper Lucas’s treatise, in two large volumes, is the
“Well,” says I, “I think they are a pack of flat-heads for not keeping
Reserve them for my love, not for their rhyme,
fullest and the best on this subject. No breeder doubts how strong is
the palace themselves ’stead of fooling them away like that. And what’s
the tendency to inheritance: like produces like is his fundamental
Exceeded by the height of happier men.
more—if I was one of them I would see a man in Jericho before I would
O then vouchsafe me but this loving thought,
drop my business and come to him for the rubbing of an old tin lamp.”
belief: doubts have been thrown on this principle by theoretical
“How you talk, Huck Finn. Why, you’d _have_ to come when he rubbed it,
deviation appears not unfrequently, and we see it in the father and
’Had my friend’s Muse grown with this growing age,
child, we cannot tell whether it may not be due to the same original
A dearer birth than this his love had brought
whether you wanted to or not.”
“What! and I as high as a tree and as big as a church? All right, then;
To march in ranks of better equipage:
cause acting on both; but when amongst individuals, apparently exposed
But since he died and poets better prove,
I _would_ come; but I lay I’d make that man climb the highest tree
to the same conditions, any very rare deviation, due to some
“Shucks, it ain’t no use to talk to you, Huck Finn. You don’t seem to
extraordinary combination of circumstances, appears in the parent—say,
Theirs for their style I’ll read, his for his love’.
Full many a glorious morning have I seen,
once amongst several million individuals—and it reappears in the child,
know anything, somehow—perfect saphead.”
Flatter the mountain tops with sovereign eye,
the mere doctrine of chances almost compels us to attribute its
I thought all this over for two or three days, and then I reckoned I
would see if there was anything in it. I got an old tin lamp and an
reappearance to inheritance. Every one must have heard of cases of
Kissing with golden face the meadows green;
iron ring, and went out in the woods and rubbed and rubbed till I sweat
Gilding pale streams with heavenly alchemy:
albinism, prickly skin, hairy bodies, etc., appearing in several
Anon permit the basest clouds to ride,
members of the same family. If strange and rare deviations of structure
like an Injun, calculating to build a palace and sell it; but it warn’t
With ugly rack on his celestial face,
no use, none of the genies come. So then I judged that all that stuff
are truly inherited, less strange and commoner deviations may be freely
admitted to be inheritable. Perhaps the correct way of viewing the
was only just one of Tom Sawyer’s lies. I reckoned he believed in the
And from the forlorn world his visage hide
whole subject, would be, to look at the inheritance of every character
Stealing unseen to west with this disgrace:
A-rabs and the elephants, but as for me I think different. It had all
whatever as the rule, and non-inheritance as the anomaly.
Well, three or four months run along, and it was well into the winter
Even so my sun one early morn did shine,
The laws governing inheritance are quite unknown; no one can say why
With all triumphant splendour on my brow,
now. I had been to school most all the time and could spell and read
But out alack, he was but one hour mine,
and write just a little, and could say the multiplication table up to
the same peculiarity in different individuals of the same species, and
six times seven is thirty-five, and I don’t reckon I could ever get any
in individuals of different species, is sometimes inherited and
The region cloud hath masked him from me now.
further than that if I was to live forever. I don’t take no stock in
Yet him for this, my love no whit disdaineth,
sometimes not so; why the child often reverts in certain characters to
At first I hated the school, but by-and-by I got so I could stand it.
Suns of the world may stain, when heaven’s sun staineth.
its grandfather or grandmother or other much more remote ancestor; why
Why didst thou promise such a beauteous day,
a peculiarity is often transmitted from one sex to both sexes or to one
Whenever I got uncommon tired I played hookey, and the hiding I got
And make me travel forth without my cloak,
next day done me good and cheered me up. So the longer I went to school
sex alone, more commonly but not exclusively to the like sex. It is a
To let base clouds o’ertake me in my way,
the easier it got to be. I was getting sort of used to the widow’s
fact of some little importance to us, that peculiarities appearing in
Hiding thy brav’ry in their rotten smoke?
ways, too, and they warn’t so raspy on me. Living in a house and
the males of our domestic breeds are often transmitted either
’Tis not enough that through the cloud thou break,
sleeping in a bed pulled on me pretty tight mostly, but before the cold
exclusively, or in a much greater degree, to males alone. A much more
weather I used to slide out and sleep in the woods sometimes, and so
important rule, which I think may be trusted, is that, at whatever
To dry the rain on my storm-beaten face,
that was a rest to me. I liked the old ways best, but I was getting so
For no man well of such a salve can speak,
period of life a peculiarity first appears, it tends to appear in the
That heals the wound, and cures not the disgrace:
I liked the new ones, too, a little bit. The widow said I was coming
offspring at a corresponding age, though sometimes earlier. In many
not be otherwise: thus the inherited peculiarities in the horns of
along slow but sure, and doing very satisfactory. She said she warn’t
Nor can thy shame give physic to my grief,
cattle could appear only in the offspring when nearly mature;
Though thou repent, yet I have still the loss,
One morning I happened to turn over the salt-cellar at breakfast. I
Th’ offender’s sorrow lends but weak relief
reached for some of it as quick as I could to throw over my left
peculiarities in the silkworm are known to appear at the corresponding
To him that bears the strong offence’s cross.
shoulder and keep off the bad luck, but Miss Watson was in ahead of me,
caterpillar or cocoon stage. But hereditary diseases and some other
and crossed me off. She says, “Take your hands away, Huckleberry; what
facts make me believe that the rule has a wider extension, and that
Ah but those tears are pearl which thy love sheds,
when there is no apparent reason why a peculiarity should appear at any
a mess you are always making!” The widow put in a good word for me, but
And they are rich, and ransom all ill deeds.
that warn’t going to keep off the bad luck, I knowed that well enough.
No more be grieved at that which thou hast done,
particular age, yet that it does tend to appear in the offspring at the
same period at which it first appeared in the parent. I believe this
I started out, after breakfast, feeling worried and shaky, and
Roses have thorns, and silver fountains mud,
rule to be of the highest importance in explaining the laws of
Clouds and eclipses stain both moon and sun,
wondering where it was going to fall on me, and what it was going to
And loathsome canker lives in sweetest bud.
be. There is ways to keep off some kinds of bad luck, but this wasn’t
embryology. These remarks are of course confined to the first
_appearance_ of the peculiarity, and not to its primary cause, which
one of them kind; so I never tried to do anything, but just poked along
All men make faults, and even I in this,
may have acted on the ovules or male element; in nearly the same manner
Authorizing thy trespass with compare,
low-spirited and on the watch-out.
as in the crossed offspring from a short-horned cow by a long-horned
My self corrupting salving thy amiss,
I went down to the front garden and clumb over the stile where you go
through the high board fence. There was an inch of new snow on the
Excusing thy sins more than thy sins are:
bull, the greater length of horn, though appearing late in life, is
ground, and I seen somebody’s tracks. They had come up from the quarry
clearly due to the male element.
For to thy sensual fault I bring in sense;
Thy adverse party is thy advocate,
and stood around the stile a while, and then went on around the garden
Having alluded to the subject of reversion, I may here refer to a
statement often made by naturalists—namely, that our domestic
And ’gainst my self a lawful plea commence:
fence. It was funny they hadn’t come in, after standing around so. I
couldn’t make it out. It was very curious, somehow. I was going to
Such civil war is in my love and hate,
varieties, when run wild, gradually but certainly revert in character
follow around, but I stooped down to look at the tracks first. I didn’t
That I an accessary needs must be,
to their aboriginal stocks. Hence it has been argued that no deductions
notice anything at first, but next I did. There was a cross in the left
To that sweet thief which sourly robs from me.
can be drawn from domestic races to species in a state of nature. I
boot-heel made with big nails, to keep off the devil.
Let me confess that we two must be twain,
have in vain endeavoured to discover on what decisive facts the above
statement has so often and so boldly been made. There would be great
I was up in a second and shinning down the hill. I looked over my
Although our undivided loves are one:
difficulty in proving its truth: we may safely conclude that very many
So shall those blots that do with me remain,
shoulder every now and then, but I didn’t see nobody. I was at Judge
Thatcher’s as quick as I could get there. He said:
of the most strongly-marked domestic varieties could not possibly live
Without thy help, by me be borne alone.
in a wild state. In many cases we do not know what the aboriginal stock
In our two loves there is but one respect,
“Why, my boy, you are all out of breath. Did you come for your
was, and so could not tell whether or not nearly perfect reversion had
Though in our lives a separable spite,
“No, sir,” I says; “is there some for me?”
“Oh, yes, a half-yearly is in, last night—over a hundred and fifty
Which though it alter not love’s sole effect,
ensued. It would be quite necessary, in order to prevent the effects of
single variety should be turned loose in its new home. Nevertheless, as
Yet doth it steal sweet hours from love’s delight.
dollars. Quite a fortune for you. You had better let me invest it along
with your six thousand, because if you take it you’ll spend it.”
our varieties certainly do occasionally revert in some of their
I may not evermore acknowledge thee,
characters to ancestral forms, it seems to me not improbable, that if
“No, sir,” I says, “I don’t want to spend it. I don’t want it at
Lest my bewailed guilt should do thee shame,
Nor thou with public kindness honour me,
we could succeed in naturalising, or were to cultivate, during many
all—nor the six thousand, nuther. I want you to take it; I want to give
generations, the several races, for instance, of the cabbage, in very
it to you—the six thousand and all.”
Unless thou take that honour from thy name:
But do not so, I love thee in such sort,
He looked surprised. He couldn’t seem to make it out. He says:
poor soil (in which case, however, some effect would have to be
“Why, what can you mean, my boy?”
As thou being mine, mine is thy good report.
attributed to the direct action of the poor soil), that they would to a
large extent, or even wholly, revert to the wild aboriginal stock.
I says, “Don’t you ask me no questions about it, please. You’ll take
As a decrepit father takes delight,
“Well, I’m puzzled. Is something the matter?”
To see his active child do deeds of youth,
Whether or not the experiment would succeed, is not of great importance
“Please take it,” says I, “and don’t ask me nothing—then I won’t have
So I, made lame by Fortune’s dearest spite
for our line of argument; for by the experiment itself the conditions
Take all my comfort of thy worth and truth.
of life are changed. If it could be shown that our domestic varieties
He studied a while, and then he says:
“Oho-o! I think I see. You want to _sell_ all your property to me—not
For whether beauty, birth, or wealth, or wit,
manifested a strong tendency to reversion,—that is, to lose their
give it. That’s the correct idea.”
Or any of these all, or all, or more
acquired characters, whilst kept under unchanged conditions, and whilst
Then he wrote something on a paper and read it over, and says:
kept in a considerable body, so that free intercrossing might check, by
Entitled in thy parts, do crowned sit,
blending together, any slight deviations of structure, in such case, I
I make my love engrafted to this store:
“There; you see it says ‘for a consideration.’ That means I have bought
it of you and paid you for it. Here’s a dollar for you. Now you sign
grant that we could deduce nothing from domestic varieties in regard to
So then I am not lame, poor, nor despised,
Miss Watson’s nigger, Jim, had a hair-ball as big as your fist, which
Whilst that this shadow doth such substance give,
species. But there is not a shadow of evidence in favour of this view:
That I in thy abundance am sufficed,
had been took out of the fourth stomach of an ox, and he used to do
to assert that we could not breed our cart and race-horses, long and
And by a part of all thy glory live:
magic with it. He said there was a spirit inside of it, and it knowed
short-horned cattle, and poultry of various breeds, and esculent
everything. So I went to him that night and told him pap was here
vegetables, for an almost infinite number of generations, would be
Look what is best, that best I wish in thee,
This wish I have, then ten times happy me.
opposed to all experience. I may add, that when under nature the
again, for I found his tracks in the snow. What I wanted to know was,
conditions of life do change, variations and reversions of character
How can my Muse want subject to invent
what he was going to do, and was he going to stay? Jim got out his
While thou dost breathe that pour’st into my verse,
hair-ball and said something over it, and then he held it up and
probably do occur; but natural selection, as will hereafter be
Thine own sweet argument, too excellent,
dropped it on the floor. It fell pretty solid, and only rolled about an
explained, will determine how far the new characters thus arising shall
inch. Jim tried it again, and then another time, and it acted just the
For every vulgar paper to rehearse?
When we look to the hereditary varieties or races of our domestic
same. Jim got down on his knees, and put his ear against it and
animals and plants, and compare them with species closely allied
O give thyself the thanks if aught in me,
listened. But it warn’t no use; he said it wouldn’t talk. He said
together, we generally perceive in each domestic race, as already
Worthy perusal stand against thy sight,
remarked, less uniformity of character than in true species. Domestic
sometimes it wouldn’t talk without money. I told him I had an old slick
For who’s so dumb that cannot write to thee,
the same species, also, often have a somewhat monstrous character; by
counterfeit quarter that warn’t no good because the brass showed
When thou thyself dost give invention light?
Be thou the tenth Muse, ten times more in worth
which I mean, that, although differing from each other, and from the
through the silver a little, and it wouldn’t pass nohow, even if the
Than those old nine which rhymers invocate,
other species of the same genus, in several trifling respects, they
brass didn’t show, because it was so slick it felt greasy, and so that
And he that calls on thee, let him bring forth
often differ in an extreme degree in some one part, both when compared
would tell on it every time. (I reckoned I wouldn’t say nothing about
one with another, and more especially when compared with all the
the dollar I got from the judge.) I said it was pretty bad money, but
Eternal numbers to outlive long date.
If my slight Muse do please these curious days,
maybe the hair-ball would take it, because maybe it wouldn’t know the
species in nature to which they are nearest allied. With these
exceptions (and with that of the perfect fertility of varieties when
The pain be mine, but thine shall be the praise.
difference. Jim smelt it and bit it and rubbed it, and said he would
manage so the hair-ball would think it was good. He said he would split
crossed,—a subject hereafter to be discussed), domestic races of the
O how thy worth with manners may I sing,
same species differ from each other in the same manner as, only in most
When thou art all the better part of me?
open a raw Irish potato and stick the quarter in between and keep it
cases in a lesser degree than, do closely-allied species of the same
there all night, and next morning you couldn’t see no brass, and it
What can mine own praise to mine own self bring:
And what is’t but mine own when I praise thee?
wouldn’t feel greasy no more, and so anybody in town would take it in a
genus in a state of nature. I think this must be admitted, when we find
Even for this, let us divided live,
that there are hardly any domestic races, either amongst animals or
minute, let alone a hair-ball. Well, I knowed a potato would do that
plants, which have not been ranked by some competent judges as mere
And our dear love lose name of single one,
Jim put the quarter under the hair-ball, and got down and listened
That by this separation I may give:
varieties, and by other competent judges as the descendants of
again. This time he said the hair-ball was all right. He said it would
tell my whole fortune if I wanted it to. I says, go on. So the
That due to thee which thou deserv’st alone:
aboriginally distinct species. If any marked distinction existed
hair-ball talked to Jim, and Jim told it to me. He says:
O absence what a torment wouldst thou prove,
between domestic races and species, this source of doubt could not so
Were it not thy sour leisure gave sweet leave,
“Yo’ ole father doan’ know yit what he’s a-gwyne to do. Sometimes he
perpetually recur. It has often been stated that domestic races do not
spec he’ll go ’way, en den agin he spec he’ll stay. De bes’ way is to
differ from each other in characters of generic value. I think it could
To entertain the time with thoughts of love,
be shown that this statement is hardly correct; but naturalists differ
res’ easy en let de ole man take his own way. Dey’s two angels hoverin’
Which time and thoughts so sweetly doth deceive.
most widely in determining what characters are of generic value; all
roun’ ’bout him. One uv ’em is white en shiny, en t’other one is black.
And that thou teachest how to make one twain,
such valuations being at present empirical. Moreover, on the view of
De white one gits him to go right a little while, den de black one sail
By praising him here who doth hence remain.
in en bust it all up. A body can’t tell yit which one gwyne to fetch
Take all my loves, my love, yea take them all,
the origin of genera which I shall presently give, we have no right to
expect often to meet with generic differences in our domesticated
him at de las’. But you is all right. You gwyne to have considable
What hast thou then more than thou hadst before?
When we attempt to estimate the amount of structural difference between
No love, my love, that thou mayst true love call,
trouble in yo’ life, en considable joy. Sometimes you gwyne to git
All mine was thine, before thou hadst this more:
the domestic races of the same species, we are soon involved in doubt,
hurt, en sometimes you gwyne to git sick; but every time you’s gwyne to
Then if for my love, thou my love receivest,
git well agin. Dey’s two gals flyin’ ’bout you in yo’ life. One uv
from not knowing whether they have descended from one or several
’em’s light en t’other one is dark. One is rich en t’other is po’.
I cannot blame thee, for my love thou usest,
parent-species. This point, if it could be cleared up, would be
interesting; if, for instance, it could be shown that the greyhound,
You’s gwyne to marry de po’ one fust en de rich one by en by. You wants
But yet be blamed, if thou thyself deceivest
By wilful taste of what thyself refusest.
bloodhound, terrier, spaniel, and bull-dog, which we all know propagate
to keep ’way fum de water as much as you kin, en don’t run no resk,
’kase it’s down in de bills dat you’s gwyne to git hung.”
I do forgive thy robbery gentle thief
their kind so truly, were the offspring of any single species, then
Although thou steal thee all my poverty:
such facts would have great weight in making us doubt about the
When I lit my candle and went up to my room that night there sat pap
immutability of the many very closely allied and natural species—for
And yet love knows it is a greater grief
I had shut the door to. Then I turned around and there he was. I used
To bear greater wrong, than hate’s known injury.
to be scared of him all the time, he tanned me so much. I reckoned I
instance, of the many foxes—inhabiting different quarters of the world.
Lascivious grace, in whom all ill well shows,
I do not believe, as we shall presently see, that all our dogs have
was scared now, too; but in a minute I see I was mistaken—that is,
descended from any one wild species; but, in the case of some other
after the first jolt, as you may say, when my breath sort of hitched,
Kill me with spites yet we must not be foes.
Those pretty wrongs that liberty commits,
domestic races, there is presumptive, or even strong, evidence in
he being so unexpected; but right away after I see I warn’t scared of
It has often been assumed that man has chosen for domestication animals
When I am sometime absent from thy heart,
He was most fifty, and he looked it. His hair was long and tangled and
greasy, and hung down, and you could see his eyes shining through like
and plants having an extraordinary inherent tendency to vary, and
Thy beauty, and thy years full well befits,
he was behind vines. It was all black, no gray; so was his long,
For still temptation follows where thou art.
likewise to withstand diverse climates. I do not dispute that these
capacities have added largely to the value of most of our domesticated
mixed-up whiskers. There warn’t no color in his face, where his face
Gentle thou art, and therefore to be won,
showed; it was white; not like another man’s white, but a white to make
Beauteous thou art, therefore to be assailed.
productions; but how could a savage possibly know, when he first tamed
an animal, whether it would vary in succeeding generations, and whether
And when a woman woos, what woman’s son,
a body sick, a white to make a body’s flesh crawl—a tree-toad white, a
fish-belly white. As for his clothes—just rags, that was all. He had
Will sourly leave her till he have prevailed?
it would endure other climates? Has the little variability of the ass
one ankle resting on t’other knee; the boot on that foot was busted,
or guinea-fowl, or the small power of endurance of warmth by the
Ay me, but yet thou mightst my seat forbear,
and two of his toes stuck through, and he worked them now and then. His
rein-deer, or of cold by the common camel, prevented their
And chide thy beauty, and thy straying youth,
domestication? I cannot doubt that if other animals and plants, equal
hat was laying on the floor—an old black slouch with the top caved in,
Who lead thee in their riot even there
Where thou art forced to break a twofold truth:
in number to our domesticated productions, and belonging to equally
I stood a-looking at him; he set there a-looking at me, with his chair
Hers by thy beauty tempting her to thee,
tilted back a little. I set the candle down. I noticed the window was
diverse classes and countries, were taken from a state of nature, and
Thine by thy beauty being false to me.
could be made to breed for an equal number of generations under
up; so he had clumb in by the shed. He kept a-looking me all over.
domestication, they would vary on an average as largely as the parent
“Starchy clothes—very. You think you’re a good deal of a big-bug,
That thou hast her it is not all my grief,
“Maybe I am, maybe I ain’t,” I says.
And yet it may be said I loved her dearly,
species of our existing domesticated productions have varied.
That she hath thee is of my wailing chief,
“Don’t you give me none o’ your lip,” says he. “You’ve put on
In the case of most of our anciently domesticated animals and plants, I
do not think it is possible to come to any definite conclusion, whether
considerable many frills since I been away. I’ll take you down a peg
A loss in love that touches me more nearly.
before I get done with you. You’re educated, too, they say—can read and
they have descended from one or several species. The argument mainly
Loving offenders thus I will excuse ye,
Thou dost love her, because thou know’st I love her,
relied on by those who believe in the multiple origin
write. You think you’re better’n your father, now, don’t you, because
he can’t? _I’ll_ take it out of you. Who told you you might meddle with
And for my sake even so doth she abuse me,
of our domestic animals is, that we find in the most ancient records,
such hifalut’n foolishness, hey?—who told you you could?”
Suff’ring my friend for my sake to approve her.
more especially on the monuments of Egypt, much diversity in the
breeds; and that some of the breeds closely resemble, perhaps are
“The widow, hey?—and who told the widow she could put in her shovel
If I lose thee, my loss is my love’s gain,
identical with, those still existing. Even if this latter fact were
And losing her, my friend hath found that loss,
about a thing that ain’t none of her business?”
Both find each other, and I lose both twain,
found more strictly and generally true than seems to me to be the case,
“Well, I’ll learn her how to meddle. And looky here—you drop that
And both for my sake lay on me this cross,
what does it show, but that some of our breeds originated there, four
school, you hear? I’ll learn people to bring up a boy to put on airs
over his own father and let on to be better’n what _he_ is. You lemme
But here’s the joy, my friend and I are one,
or five thousand years ago? But Mr. Horner’s researches have rendered
it in some degree probable that man sufficiently civilized to have
catch you fooling around that school again, you hear? Your mother
Sweet flattery, then she loves but me alone.
manufactured pottery existed in the valley of the Nile thirteen or
couldn’t read, and she couldn’t write, nuther, before she died. None of
When most I wink then do mine eyes best see,
For all the day they view things unrespected,
the family couldn’t before _they_ died. _I_ can’t; and here you’re
fourteen thousand years ago; and who will pretend to say how long
a-swelling yourself up like this. I ain’t the man to stand it—you hear?
before these ancient periods, savages, like those of Tierra del Fuego
But when I sleep, in dreams they look on thee,
or Australia, who possess a semi-domestic dog, may not have existed in
And darkly bright, are bright in dark directed.
I took up a book and begun something about General Washington and the
wars. When I’d read about a half a minute, he fetched the book a whack
The whole subject must, I think, remain vague; nevertheless, I may,
Then thou whose shadow shadows doth make bright
without here entering on any details, state that, from geographical and
How would thy shadow’s form, form happy show,
with his hand and knocked it across the house. He says:
“It’s so. You can do it. I had my doubts when you told me. Now looky
To the clear day with thy much clearer light,
other considerations, I think it highly probable that our domestic dogs
have descended from several wild species. In regard to sheep and goats
here; you stop that putting on frills. I won’t have it. I’ll lay for
When to unseeing eyes thy shade shines so!
you, my smarty; and if I catch you about that school I’ll tan you good.
How would (I say) mine eyes be blessed made,
I can form no opinion. I should think, from facts communicated to me by
By looking on thee in the living day,
Mr. Blyth, on the habits, voice, and constitution, etc., of the humped
First you know you’ll get religion, too. I never see such a son.”
Indian cattle, that these had descended from a different aboriginal
He took up a little blue and yaller picture of some cows and a boy, and
When in dead night thy fair imperfect shade,
Through heavy sleep on sightless eyes doth stay!
“It’s something they give me for learning my lessons good.”
stock from our European cattle; and several competent judges believe
All days are nights to see till I see thee,
that these latter have had more than one wild parent. With respect to
“I’ll give you something better—I’ll give you a cowhide.”
And nights bright days when dreams do show thee me.
horses, from reasons which I cannot give here, I am doubtfully inclined
He set there a-mumbling and a-growling a minute, and then he says:
If the dull substance of my flesh were thought,
to believe, in opposition to several authors, that all the races have
“_Ain’t_ you a sweet-scented dandy, though? A bed; and bedclothes; and
Injurious distance should not stop my way,
descended from one wild stock. Mr. Blyth, whose opinion, from his large
a look’n’-glass; and a piece of carpet on the floor—and your own father
and varied stores of knowledge, I should value more than that of almost
got to sleep with the hogs in the tanyard. I never see such a son. I
For then despite of space I would be brought,
bet I’ll take some o’ these frills out o’ you before I’m done with you.
From limits far remote, where thou dost stay,
any one, thinks that all the breeds of poultry have proceeded from the
Indian fowl (Gallus bankiva). In regard to ducks and rabbits, the
Why, there ain’t no end to your airs—they say you’re rich. Hey?—how’s
No matter then although my foot did stand
Upon the farthest earth removed from thee,
“Looky here—mind how you talk to me; I’m a-standing about all I can
breeds of which differ considerably from each other in structure, I do
For nimble thought can jump both sea and land,
not doubt that they all have descended from the common wild duck and
stand now—so don’t gimme no sass. I’ve been in town two days, and I
hain’t heard nothing but about you bein’ rich. I heard about it away
The doctrine of the origin of our several domestic races from several
As soon as think the place where he would be.
down the river, too. That’s why I come. You git me that money
aboriginal stocks, has been carried to an absurd extreme by some
But ah, thought kills me that I am not thought
To leap large lengths of miles when thou art gone,
authors. They believe that every race which breeds true, let the
“It’s a lie. Judge Thatcher’s got it. You git it. I want it.”
But that so much of earth and water wrought,
“I hain’t got no money, I tell you. You ask Judge Thatcher; he’ll tell
distinctive characters be ever so slight, has had its wild prototype.
“All right. I’ll ask him; and I’ll make him pungle, too, or I’ll know
I must attend, time’s leisure with my moan.
At this rate there must have existed at least a score of species of
Receiving nought by elements so slow,
wild cattle, as many sheep, and several goats in Europe alone, and
the reason why. Say, how much you got in your pocket? I want it.”
several even within Great Britain. One author believes that there
But heavy tears, badges of either’s woe.
“I hain’t got only a dollar, and I want that to—”
The other two, slight air, and purging fire,
formerly existed in Great Britain eleven wild species of sheep peculiar
“It don’t make no difference what you want it for—you just shell it
to it! When we bear in mind that Britain has now hardly one peculiar
Are both with thee, wherever I abide,
He took it and bit it to see if it was good, and then he said he was
The first my thought, the other my desire,
going down town to get some whisky; said he hadn’t had a drink all day.
mammal, and France but few distinct from those of Germany and
These present-absent with swift motion slide.
conversely, and so with Hungary, Spain, etc., but that each of these
When he had got out on the shed he put his head in again, and cussed me
for putting on frills and trying to be better than him; and when I
kingdoms possesses several peculiar breeds of cattle, sheep, etc., we
For when these quicker elements are gone
must admit that many domestic breeds have originated in Europe; for
reckoned he was gone he come back and put his head in again, and told
In tender embassy of love to thee,
My life being made of four, with two alone,
me to mind about that school, because he was going to lay for me and
whence could they have been derived, as these several countries do not
Sinks down to death, oppressed with melancholy.
possess a number of peculiar species as distinct parent-stocks? So it
lick me if I didn’t drop that.
Next day he was drunk, and he went to Judge Thatcher’s and bullyragged
is in India. Even in the case of the domestic dogs of the whole world,
Until life’s composition be recured,
him, and tried to make him give up the money; but he couldn’t, and then
By those swift messengers returned from thee,
which I fully admit have probably descended from several wild species,
Who even but now come back again assured,
he swore he’d make the law force him.
I cannot doubt that there has been an immense amount of inherited
The judge and the widow went to law to get the court to take me away
variation. Who can believe that animals closely resembling the Italian
Of thy fair health, recounting it to me.
This told, I joy, but then no longer glad,
from him and let one of them be my guardian; but it was a new judge
greyhound, the bloodhound, the bull-dog, or Blenheim spaniel, etc.—so
I send them back again and straight grow sad.
that had just come, and he didn’t know the old man; so he said courts
unlike all wild Canidæ—ever existed freely in a state of nature? It has
mustn’t interfere and separate families if they could help it; said
often been loosely said that all our races of dogs have been produced
Mine eye and heart are at a mortal war,
he’d druther not take a child away from its father. So Judge Thatcher
How to divide the conquest of thy sight,
by the crossing of a few aboriginal species; but by crossing we can get
Mine eye, my heart thy picture’s sight would bar,
and the widow had to quit on the business.
only forms in some degree intermediate between their parents; and if we
That pleased the old man till he couldn’t rest. He said he’d cowhide me
account for our several domestic races by this process, we must admit
My heart, mine eye the freedom of that right,
the former existence of the most extreme forms, as the Italian
till I was black and blue if I didn’t raise some money for him. I
My heart doth plead that thou in him dost lie,
greyhound, bloodhound, bull-dog, etc., in the wild state. Moreover, the
borrowed three dollars from Judge Thatcher, and pap took it and got
A closet never pierced with crystal eyes;
possibility of making distinct races by crossing has been greatly
drunk, and went a-blowing around and cussing and whooping and carrying
But the defendant doth that plea deny,
And says in him thy fair appearance lies.
exaggerated. There can be no doubt that a race may be modified by
on; and he kept it up all over town, with a tin pan, till most
midnight; then they jailed him, and next day they had him before court,
To side this title is impanelled
occasional crosses, if aided by the careful selection of those
A quest of thoughts, all tenants to the heart,
and jailed him again for a week. But he said _he_ was satisfied; said
individual mongrels, which present any desired character; but that a
race could be obtained nearly intermediate between two extremely
he was boss of his son, and he’d make it warm for _him_.
And by their verdict is determined
The clear eye’s moiety, and the dear heart’s part.
different races or species, I can hardly believe. Sir J. Sebright
When he got out the new judge said he was a-going to make a man of him.
As thus, mine eye’s due is thy outward part,
expressly experimentised for this object, and failed. The offspring
So he took him to his own house, and dressed him up clean and nice, and
from the first cross between two pure breeds is tolerably and sometimes
And my heart’s right, thy inward love of heart.
had him to breakfast and dinner and supper with the family, and was
just old pie to him, so to speak. And after supper he talked to him
Betwixt mine eye and heart a league is took,
(as I have found with pigeons) extremely uniform, and everything seems
And each doth good turns now unto the other,
about temperance and such things till the old man cried, and said he’d
simple enough; but when these mongrels are crossed one with another for
When that mine eye is famished for a look,
several generations, hardly two of them will be alike, and then the
been a fool, and fooled away his life; but now he was a-going to turn
over a new leaf and be a man nobody wouldn’t be ashamed of, and he
Or heart in love with sighs himself doth smother;
extreme difficulty, or rather utter hopelessness, of the task becomes
With my love’s picture then my eye doth feast,
hoped the judge would help him and not look down on him. The judge said
apparent. Certainly, a breed intermediate between _two very distinct_
he could hug him for them words; so _he_ cried, and his wife she cried
breeds could not be got without extreme care and long-continued
And to the painted banquet bids my heart:
again; pap said he’d been a man that had always been misunderstood
Another time mine eye is my heart’s guest,
selection; nor can I find a single case on record of a permanent race
And in his thoughts of love doth share a part.
_On the Breeds of the Domestic Pigeon_.—Believing that it is always
before, and the judge said he believed it. The old man said that what a
best to study some special group, I have, after deliberation, taken up
man wanted that was down was sympathy, and the judge said it was so; so
So either by thy picture or my love,
domestic pigeons. I have kept every breed which I could purchase or
they cried again. And when it was bedtime the old man rose up and held
Thyself away, art present still with me,
For thou not farther than my thoughts canst move,
obtain, and have been most kindly favoured with skins from several
“Look at it, gentlemen and ladies all; take a-hold of it; shake it.
And I am still with them, and they with thee.
quarters of the world, more especially by the Honourable W. Elliot from
There’s a hand that was the hand of a hog; but it ain’t so no more;
it’s the hand of a man that’s started in on a new life, and’ll die
Or if they sleep, thy picture in my sight
India, and by the Honourable C. Murray from Persia. Many treatises in
Awakes my heart, to heart’s and eye’s delight.
different languages have been published on pigeons, and some of them
before he’ll go back. You mark them words—don’t forget I said them.
How careful was I when I took my way,
are very important, as being of considerable antiquity. I have
It’s a clean hand now; shake it—don’t be afeard.”
associated with several eminent fanciers, and have been permitted to
So they shook it, one after the other, all around, and cried. The
Each trifle under truest bars to thrust,
judge’s wife she kissed it. Then the old man he signed a pledge—made
of the London Pigeon Clubs. The diversity of the breeds is something
That to my use it might unused stay
astonishing. Compare the English carrier and the short-faced tumbler,
his mark. The judge said it was the holiest time on record, or
From hands of falsehood, in sure wards of trust!
But thou, to whom my jewels trifles are,
something like that. Then they tucked the old man into a beautiful
and see the wonderful difference in their beaks, entailing
room, which was the spare room, and in the night some time he got
Most worthy comfort, now my greatest grief,
corresponding differences in their skulls. The carrier, more especially
Thou best of dearest, and mine only care,
the male bird, is also remarkable from the wonderful development of the
powerful thirsty and clumb out on to the porch-roof and slid down a
stanchion and traded his new coat for a jug of forty-rod, and clumb
Art left the prey of every vulgar thief.
carunculated skin about the head, and this is accompanied by greatly
elongated eyelids, very large external orifices to the nostrils, and a
back again and had a good old time; and towards daylight he crawled out
Thee have I not locked up in any chest,
Save where thou art not, though I feel thou art,
wide gape of mouth. The short-faced tumbler has a beak in outline
again, drunk as a fiddler, and rolled off the porch and broke his left
almost like that of a finch; and the common tumbler has the singular
Within the gentle closure of my breast,
arm in two places, and was most froze to death when somebody found him
after sun-up. And when they come to look at that spare room they had to
and strictly inherited habit of flying at a great height in a compact
From whence at pleasure thou mayst come and part,
flock, and tumbling in the air head over heels. The runt is a bird of
And even thence thou wilt be stol’n I fear,
take soundings before they could navigate it.
For truth proves thievish for a prize so dear.
great size, with long, massive beak and large feet; some of the
The judge he felt kind of sore. He said he reckoned a body could reform
Against that time (if ever that time come)
sub-breeds of runts have very long necks, others very long wings and
the old man with a shotgun, maybe, but he didn’t know no other way.
Well, pretty soon the old man was up and around again, and then he went
tails, others singularly short tails. The barb is allied to the
When I shall see thee frown on my defects,
for Judge Thatcher in the courts to make him give up that money, and he
When as thy love hath cast his utmost sum,
carrier, but, instead of a very long beak, has a very short and very
Called to that audit by advised respects,
went for me, too, for not stopping school. He catched me a couple of
broad one. The pouter has a much elongated body, wings, and legs; and
its enormously developed crop, which it glories in inflating, may well
times and thrashed me, but I went to school just the same, and dodged
Against that time when thou shalt strangely pass,
him or outrun him most of the time. I didn’t want to go to school much
excite astonishment and even laughter. The turbit has a very short and
And scarcely greet me with that sun thine eye,
conical beak, with a line of reversed feathers down the breast; and it
When love converted from the thing it was
before, but I reckoned I’d go now to spite pap. That law trial was a
slow business—appeared like they warn’t ever going to get started on
Shall reasons find of settled gravity;
has the habit of continually expanding slightly the upper part of the
oesophagus. The Jacobin has the feathers so much reversed along the
Against that time do I ensconce me here
it; so every now and then I’d borrow two or three dollars off of the
Within the knowledge of mine own desert,
judge for him, to keep from getting a cowhiding. Every time he got
back of the neck that they form a hood, and it has, proportionally to
its size, much elongated wing and tail feathers. The trumpeter and
money he got drunk; and every time he got drunk he raised Cain around
And this my hand, against my self uprear,
To guard the lawful reasons on thy part,
town; and every time he raised Cain he got jailed. He was just
laugher, as their names express, utter a very different coo from the
To leave poor me, thou hast the strength of laws,
suited—this kind of thing was right in his line.
other breeds. The fantail has thirty or even forty tail-feathers,
He got to hanging around the widow’s too much and so she told him at
Since why to love, I can allege no cause.
instead of twelve or fourteen, the normal number in all members of the
last that if he didn’t quit using around there she would make trouble
How heavy do I journey on the way,
great pigeon family; and these feathers are kept expanded, and are
for him. Well, _wasn’t_ he mad? He said he would show who was Huck
carried so erect that in good birds the head and tail
When what I seek (my weary travel’s end)
touch; the oil-gland is quite aborted. Several other less distinct
Doth teach that case and that repose to say
Finn’s boss. So he watched out for me one day in the spring, and
catched me, and took me up the river about three mile in a skiff, and
’Thus far the miles are measured from thy friend.’
breeds might have been specified.
crossed over to the Illinois shore where it was woody and there warn’t
The beast that bears me, tired with my woe,
In the skeletons of the several breeds, the development of the bones of
the face in length and breadth and curvature differs enormously. The
no houses but an old log hut in a place where the timber was so thick
Plods dully on, to bear that weight in me,
you couldn’t find it if you didn’t know where it was.
shape, as well as the breadth and length of the ramus of the lower jaw,
As if by some instinct the wretch did know
varies in a highly remarkable manner. The number of the caudal and
He kept me with him all the time, and I never got a chance to run off.
His rider loved not speed being made from thee:
We lived in that old cabin, and he always locked the door and put the
sacral vertebræ vary; as does the number of the ribs, together with
The bloody spur cannot provoke him on,
key under his head nights. He had a gun which he had stole, I reckon,
their relative breadth and the presence of processes. The size and
That sometimes anger thrusts into his hide,
and we fished and hunted, and that was what we lived on. Every little
Which heavily he answers with a groan,
shape of the apertures in the sternum are highly variable; so is the
degree of divergence and relative size of the two arms of the furcula.
More sharp to me than spurring to his side,
while he locked me in and went down to the store, three miles, to the
The proportional width of the gape of mouth, the proportional length of
For that same groan doth put this in my mind,
ferry, and traded fish and game for whisky, and fetched it home and got
My grief lies onward and my joy behind.
the eyelids, of the orifice of the nostrils, of the tongue (not always
drunk and had a good time, and licked me. The widow she found out where
in strict correlation with the length of beak), the size of the crop
I was by-and-by, and she sent a man over to try to get hold of me; but
Thus can my love excuse the slow offence,
Of my dull bearer, when from thee I speed,
pap drove him off with the gun, and it warn’t long after that till I
and of the upper part of the oesophagus; the development and abortion
was used to being where I was, and liked it—all but the cowhide part.
From where thou art, why should I haste me thence?
of the oil-gland; the number of the primary wing and caudal feathers;
It was kind of lazy and jolly, laying off comfortable all day, smoking
Till I return of posting is no need.
the relative length of wing and tail to each other and to the body; the
relative length of leg and of the feet; the number of scutellæ on the
O what excuse will my poor beast then find,
and fishing, and no books nor study. Two months or more run along, and
toes, the development of skin between the toes, are all points of
my clothes got to be all rags and dirt, and I didn’t see how I’d ever
When swift extremity can seem but slow?
got to like it so well at the widow’s, where you had to wash, and eat
structure which are variable. The period at which the perfect plumage
Then should I spur though mounted on the wind,
In winged speed no motion shall I know,
on a plate, and comb up, and go to bed and get up regular, and be
is acquired varies, as does the state of the down with which the
Then can no horse with my desire keep pace,
forever bothering over a book, and have old Miss Watson pecking at you
nestling birds are clothed when hatched. The shape and size of the eggs
vary. The manner of flight differs remarkably; as does in some breeds
Therefore desire (of perfect’st love being made)
all the time. I didn’t want to go back no more. I had stopped cussing,
Shall neigh no dull flesh in his fiery race,
the voice and disposition. Lastly, in certain breeds, the males and
because the widow didn’t like it; but now I took to it again because
But love, for love, thus shall excuse my jade:
females have come to differ to a slight degree from each other.
pap hadn’t no objections. It was pretty good times up in the woods
Altogether at least a score of pigeons might be chosen, which if shown
Since from thee going, he went wilful-slow,
But by-and-by pap got too handy with his hick’ry, and I couldn’t stand
it. I was all over welts. He got to going away so much, too, and
Towards thee I’ll run, and give him leave to go.
to an ornithologist, and he were told that they were wild birds, would
So am I as the rich whose blessed key,
certainly, I think, be ranked by him as well-defined species. Moreover,
locking me in. Once he locked me in and was gone three days. It was
Can bring him to his sweet up-locked treasure,
dreadful lonesome. I judged he had got drownded, and I wasn’t ever
I do not believe that any ornithologist would place touch; the
going to get out any more. I was scared. I made up my mind I would fix
The which he will not every hour survey,
oil-gland is quite aborted. Several other less distinct breeds might
the English carrier, the short-faced tumbler, the runt, the barb,
For blunting the fine point of seldom pleasure.
up some way to leave there. I had tried to get out of that cabin many a
time, but I couldn’t find no way. There warn’t a window to it big
Therefore are feasts so solemn and so rare,
pouter, and fantail in the same genus; more especially as in each of
enough for a dog to get through. I couldn’t get up the chimbly; it was
these breeds several truly-inherited sub-breeds, or species as he might
Since seldom coming in that long year set,
have called them, could be shown him.
too narrow. The door was thick, solid oak slabs. Pap was pretty careful
Like stones of worth they thinly placed are,
not to leave a knife or anything in the cabin when he was away; I
Great as the differences are between the breeds of pigeons, I am fully
Or captain jewels in the carcanet.
reckon I had hunted the place over as much as a hundred times; well, I
convinced that the common opinion of naturalists is correct, namely,
So is the time that keeps you as my chest
that all have descended from the rock-pigeon (Columba livia), including
was most all the time at it, because it was about the only way to put
Or as the wardrobe which the robe doth hide,
under this term several geographical races or sub-species, which differ
To make some special instant special-blest,
in the time. But this time I found something at last; I found an old
rusty wood-saw without any handle; it was laid in between a rafter and
By new unfolding his imprisoned pride.
from each other in the most trifling respects. As several of the
the clapboards of the roof. I greased it up and went to work. There was
Blessed are you whose worthiness gives scope,
reasons which have led me to this belief are in some degree applicable
an old horse-blanket nailed against the logs at the far end of the
in other cases, I will here briefly give them. If the several breeds
Being had to triumph, being lacked to hope.
cabin behind the table, to keep the wind from blowing through the
What is your substance, whereof are you made,
are not varieties, and have not proceeded from the rock-pigeon, they
must have descended from at least seven or eight aboriginal stocks; for
chinks and putting the candle out. I got under the table and raised the
That millions of strange shadows on you tend?
Since every one, hath every one, one shade,
blanket, and went to work to saw a section of the big bottom log
it is impossible to make the present domestic breeds by the crossing of
any lesser number: how, for instance, could a pouter be produced by
out—big enough to let me through. Well, it was a good long job, but I
And you but one, can every shadow lend:
crossing two breeds unless one of the parent-stocks possessed the
Describe Adonis and the counterfeit,
was getting towards the end of it when I heard pap’s gun in the woods.
characteristic enormous crop? The supposed aboriginal stocks must all
I got rid of the signs of my work, and dropped the blanket and hid my
On Helen’s cheek all art of beauty set,
And you in Grecian tires are painted new:
have been rock-pigeons, that is, not breeding or willingly perching on
saw, and pretty soon pap come in.
Pap warn’t in a good humor—so he was his natural self. He said he was
trees. But besides C. livia, with its geographical sub-species, only
Speak of the spring, and foison of the year,
two or three other species of rock-pigeons are known; and these have
down town, and everything was going wrong. His lawyer said he reckoned
The one doth shadow of your beauty show,
he would win his lawsuit and get the money if they ever got started on
not any of the characters of the domestic breeds. Hence the supposed
The other as your bounty doth appear,
the trial; but then there was ways to put it off a long time, and Judge
aboriginal stocks must either still exist in the countries where they
And you in every blessed shape we know.
In all external grace you have some part,
were originally domesticated, and yet be unknown to ornithologists; and
Thatcher knowed how to do it. And he said people allowed there’d be
another trial to get me away from him and give me to the widow for my
this, considering their size, habits, and remarkable characters, seems
But you like none, none you for constant heart.
guardian, and they guessed it would win this time. This shook me up
very improbable; or they must have become extinct in the wild state.
O how much more doth beauty beauteous seem,
But birds breeding on precipices, and good fliers, are unlikely to be
By that sweet ornament which truth doth give!
considerable, because I didn’t want to go back to the widow’s any more
exterminated; and the common rock-pigeon, which has the same habits
and be so cramped up and sivilized, as they called it. Then the old man
The rose looks fair, but fairer we it deem
For that sweet odour, which doth in it live:
got to cussing, and cussed everything and everybody he could think of,
with the domestic breeds, has not been exterminated
and then cussed them all over again to make sure he hadn’t skipped any,
even on several of the smaller British islets, or on the shores of the
The canker blooms have full as deep a dye,
Mediterranean. Hence the supposed extermination of so many species
and after that he polished off with a kind of a general cuss all round,
As the perfumed tincture of the roses,
Hang on such thorns, and play as wantonly,
including a considerable parcel of people which he didn’t know the
having similar habits with the rock-pigeon seems to me a very rash
When summer’s breath their masked buds discloses:
names of, and so called them what’s-his-name when he got to them, and
assumption. Moreover, the several above-named domesticated breeds have
But for their virtue only is their show,
been transported to all parts of the world, and, therefore, some of
went right along with his cussing.
He said he would like to see the widow get me. He said he would watch
them must have been carried back again into their native country; but
They live unwooed, and unrespected fade,
not one has ever become wild or feral, though the dovecot-pigeon, which
Die to themselves. Sweet roses do not so,
out, and if they tried to come any such game on him he knowed of a
place six or seven mile off to stow me in, where they might hunt till
Of their sweet deaths, are sweetest odours made:
is the rock-pigeon in a very slightly altered state, has become feral
in several places. Again, all recent experience shows that it is most
And so of you, beauteous and lovely youth,
they dropped and they couldn’t find me. That made me pretty uneasy
difficult to get any wild animal to breed freely under domestication;
When that shall fade, my verse distills your truth.
again, but only for a minute; I reckoned I wouldn’t stay on hand till
The old man made me go to the skiff and fetch the things he had got.
yet on the hypothesis of the multiple origin of our pigeons, it must be
Not marble, nor the gilded monuments
Of princes shall outlive this powerful rhyme,
assumed that at least seven or eight species were so thoroughly
There was a fifty-pound sack of corn meal, and a side of bacon,
ammunition, and a four-gallon jug of whisky, and an old book and two
But you shall shine more bright in these contents
domesticated in ancient times by half-civilized man, as to be quite
An argument, as it seems to me, of great weight, and applicable in
newspapers for wadding, besides some tow. I toted up a load, and went
Than unswept stone, besmeared with sluttish time.
When wasteful war shall statues overturn,
several other cases, is, that the above-specified breeds, though
back and set down on the bow of the skiff to rest. I thought it all
over, and I reckoned I would walk off with the gun and some lines, and
agreeing generally in constitution, habits, voice, colouring, and in
And broils root out the work of masonry,
Nor Mars his sword, nor war’s quick fire shall burn:
take to the woods when I run away. I guessed I wouldn’t stay in one
most parts of their structure, with the wild rock-pigeon, yet are
The living record of your memory.
place, but just tramp right across the country, mostly night times, and
certainly highly abnormal in other parts of their structure: we may
look in vain throughout the whole great family of Columbidæ for a beak
hunt and fish to keep alive, and so get so far away that the old man
’Gainst death, and all-oblivious enmity
nor the widow couldn’t ever find me any more. I judged I would saw out
like that of the English carrier, or that of the short-faced tumbler,
Shall you pace forth, your praise shall still find room,
and leave that night if pap got drunk enough, and I reckoned he would.
or barb; for reversed feathers like those of the jacobin; for a crop
Even in the eyes of all posterity
I got so full of it I didn’t notice how long I was staying till the old
like that of the pouter; for tail-feathers like those of the fantail.
That wear this world out to the ending doom.
man hollered and asked me whether I was asleep or drownded.
So till the judgement that yourself arise,
Hence it must be assumed not only that half-civilized man succeeded in
You live in this, and dwell in lovers’ eyes.
thoroughly domesticating several species, but that he intentionally or
I got the things all up to the cabin, and then it was about dark. While
I was cooking supper the old man took a swig or two and got sort of
Sweet love renew thy force, be it not said
by chance picked out extraordinarily abnormal species; and further,
warmed up, and went to ripping again. He had been drunk over in town,
Thy edge should blunter be than appetite,
that these very species have since all become extinct or unknown. So
many strange contingencies seem to me improbable in the highest degree.
Which but to-day by feeding is allayed,
and laid in the gutter all night, and he was a sight to look at. A body
would a thought he was Adam—he was just all mud. Whenever his liquor
Some facts in regard to the colouring of pigeons well deserve
To-morrow sharpened in his former might.
So love be thou, although to-day thou fill
consideration. The rock-pigeon is of a slaty-blue, and has a white rump
begun to work he most always went for the govment, this time he says:
Thy hungry eyes, even till they wink with fulness,
“Call this a govment! why, just look at it and see what it’s like.
(the Indian sub-species, C. intermedia of Strickland, having it
To-morrow see again, and do not kill
Here’s the law a-standing ready to take a man’s son away from him—a
bluish); the tail has a terminal dark bar, with the bases of the outer
The spirit of love, with a perpetual dulness:
man’s own son, which he has had all the trouble and all the anxiety and
feathers externally edged with white; the wings have two black bars;
all the expense of raising. Yes, just as that man has got that son
some semi-domestic breeds and some apparently truly wild breeds have,
Let this sad interim like the ocean be
besides the two black bars, the wings chequered with black. These
raised at last, and ready to go to work and begin to do suthin’ for
Which parts the shore, where two contracted new,
_him_ and give him a rest, the law up and goes for him. And they call
several marks do not occur together in any other species of the whole
Come daily to the banks, that when they see:
family. Now, in every one of the domestic breeds, taking thoroughly
Return of love, more blest may be the view.
_that_ govment! That ain’t all, nuther. The law backs that old Judge
Thatcher up and helps him to keep me out o’ my property. Here’s what
well-bred birds, all the above marks, even to the white edging of the
Or call it winter, which being full of care,
outer tail-feathers, sometimes concur perfectly developed. Moreover,
the law does: The law takes a man worth six thousand dollars and
Makes summer’s welcome, thrice more wished, more rare.
Being your slave what should I do but tend,
up’ards, and jams him into an old trap of a cabin like this, and lets
when two birds belonging to two distinct breeds are crossed, neither of
Upon the hours, and times of your desire?
him go round in clothes that ain’t fitten for a hog. They call that
which is blue or has any of the above-specified marks, the mongrel
offspring are very apt suddenly to acquire these characters; for
govment! A man can’t get his rights in a govment like this. Sometimes
I have no precious time at all to spend;
instance, I crossed some uniformly white fantails with some uniformly
Nor services to do till you require.
I’ve a mighty notion to just leave the country for good and all. Yes,
black barbs, and they produced mottled brown and black birds; these I
and I _told_ ’em so; I told old Thatcher so to his face. Lots of ’em
Nor dare I chide the world-without-end hour,
heard me, and can tell what I said. Says I, for two cents I’d leave the
again crossed together, and one grandchild of the pure white fantail
Whilst I (my sovereign) watch the clock for you,
Nor think the bitterness of absence sour,
blamed country and never come a-near it agin. Them’s the very words. I
and pure black barb was of as beautiful a blue colour, with the white
rump, double black wing-bar, and barred and white-edged tail-feathers,
says look at my hat—if you call it a hat—but the lid raises up and the
When you have bid your servant once adieu.
Nor dare I question with my jealous thought,
as any wild rock-pigeon! We can understand these facts, on the
rest of it goes down till it’s below my chin, and then it ain’t rightly
a hat at all, but more like my head was shoved up through a jint o’
Where you may be, or your affairs suppose,
well-known principle of reversion to ancestral characters, if all the
But like a sad slave stay and think of nought
domestic breeds have descended from the rock-pigeon. But if we deny
stove-pipe. Look at it, says I—such a hat for me to wear—one of the
wealthiest men in this town if I could git my rights.
Save where you are, how happy you make those.
this, we must make one of the two following highly improbable
So true a fool is love, that in your will,
suppositions. Either, firstly, that all the several imagined aboriginal
“Oh, yes, this is a wonderful govment, wonderful. Why, looky here.
(Though you do any thing) he thinks no ill.
There was a free nigger there from Ohio—a mulatter, most as white as a
stocks were coloured and marked like the rock-pigeon, although no other
white man. He had the whitest shirt on you ever see, too, and the
existing species is thus coloured and marked, so that in each separate
That god forbid, that made me first your slave,
breed there might be a tendency to revert to the very same colours and
I should in thought control your times of pleasure,
shiniest hat; and there ain’t a man in that town that’s got as fine
that each breed, even the purest, has within a dozen or, at most,
clothes as what he had; and he had a gold watch and chain, and a
Or at your hand th’ account of hours to crave,
within a score of generations, been crossed by the rock-pigeon: I say
silver-headed cane—the awfulest old gray-headed nabob in the State. And
Being your vassal bound to stay your leisure.
O let me suffer (being at your beck)
within a dozen or twenty generations, for we know of no fact
what do you think? They said he was a p’fessor in a college, and could
talk all kinds of languages, and knowed everything. And that ain’t the
countenancing the belief that the child ever reverts to some one
Th’ imprisoned absence of your liberty,
And patience tame to sufferance bide each check,
ancestor, removed by a greater number of generations. In a breed which
wust. They said he could _vote_ when he was at home. Well, that let me
has been crossed only once with some distinct breed, the tendency to
Without accusing you of injury.
out. Thinks I, what is the country a-coming to? It was ’lection day,
Be where you list, your charter is so strong,
reversion to any character derived from such cross will naturally
and I was just about to go and vote myself if I warn’t too drunk to get
That you yourself may privilage your time
become less and less, as in each succeeding generation there will be
there; but when they told me there was a State in this country where
To what you will, to you it doth belong,
they’d let that nigger vote, I drawed out. I says I’ll never vote agin.
less of the foreign blood; but when there has been no cross with a
Them’s the very words I said; they all heard me; and the country may
distinct breed, and there is a tendency in both parents to revert to a
Yourself to pardon of self-doing crime.
character, which has been lost during some former generation, this
rot for all me—I’ll never vote agin as long as I live. And to see the
I am to wait, though waiting so be hell,
tendency, for all that we can see to the contrary, may be transmitted
cool way of that nigger—why, he wouldn’t a give me the road if I hadn’t
Not blame your pleasure be it ill or well.
shoved him out o’ the way. I says to the people, why ain’t this nigger
If there be nothing new, but that which is,
undiminished for an indefinite number of generations. These two
distinct cases are often confounded in treatises on inheritance.
put up at auction and sold?—that’s what I want to know. And what do you
Hath been before, how are our brains beguiled,
Lastly, the hybrids or mongrels from between all the domestic breeds of
reckon they said? Why, they said he couldn’t be sold till he’d been in
Which labouring for invention bear amiss
pigeons are perfectly fertile. I can state this from my own
the State six months, and he hadn’t been there that long yet. There,
The second burthen of a former child!
now—that’s a specimen. They call that a govment that can’t sell a free
O that record could with a backward look,
observations, purposely made on the most distinct breeds. Now, it is
nigger till he’s been in the State six months. Here’s a govment that
Even of five hundred courses of the sun,
difficult, perhaps impossible, to bring forward one case of the hybrid
Show me your image in some antique book,
offspring of two animals _clearly distinct_ being themselves perfectly
calls itself a govment, and lets on to be a govment, and thinks it is a
fertile. Some authors believe that long-continued domestication
Since mind at first in character was done.
govment, and yet’s got to set stock-still for six whole months before
it can take a hold of a prowling, thieving, infernal, white-shirted
That I might see what the old world could say,
eliminates this strong tendency to sterility: from the history of the
dog I think there is some probability in this hypothesis, if applied to
To this composed wonder of your frame,
Pap was agoing on so he never noticed where his old limber legs was
taking him to, so he went head over heels over the tub of salt pork and
species closely related together, though it is unsupported by a single
Whether we are mended, or whether better they,
Or whether revolution be the same.
experiment. But to extend the hypothesis so far as to suppose that
barked both shins, and the rest of his speech was all the hottest kind
O sure I am the wits of former days,
of language—mostly hove at the nigger and the govment, though he give
species, aboriginally as distinct as carriers, tumblers, pouters, and
To subjects worse have given admiring praise.
fantails now are, should yield offspring perfectly fertile, _inter se_,
the tub some, too, all along, here and there. He hopped around the
cabin considerable, first on one leg and then on the other, holding
seems to me rash in the extreme.
Like as the waves make towards the pebbled shore,
From these several reasons, namely, the improbability of man having
So do our minutes hasten to their end,
first one shin and then the other one, and at last he let out with his
Each changing place with that which goes before,
left foot all of a sudden and fetched the tub a rattling kick. But it
formerly got seven or eight supposed
species of pigeons to breed freely under domestication; these supposed
In sequent toil all forwards do contend.
warn’t good judgment, because that was the boot that had a couple of
his toes leaking out of the front end of it; so now he raised a howl
Nativity once in the main of light,
species being quite unknown in a wild state, and their becoming nowhere
Crawls to maturity, wherewith being crowned,
that fairly made a body’s hair raise, and down he went in the dirt, and
feral; these species having very abnormal characters in certain
rolled there, and held his toes; and the cussing he done then laid over
respects, as compared with all other Columbidæ, though so like in most
Crooked eclipses ’gainst his glory fight,
anything he had ever done previous. He said so his own self afterwards.
And Time that gave, doth now his gift confound.
other respects to the rock-pigeon; the blue colour and various marks
Time doth transfix the flourish set on youth,
He had heard old Sowberry Hagan in his best days, and he said it laid
occasionally appearing in all the breeds, both when kept pure and when
over him, too; but I reckon that was sort of piling it on, maybe.
crossed; the mongrel offspring being perfectly fertile;—from these
And delves the parallels in beauty’s brow,
several reasons, taken together, I can feel no doubt that all our
Feeds on the rarities of nature’s truth,
After supper pap took the jug, and said he had enough whisky there for
domestic breeds have descended from the Columba livia with its
two drunks and one delirium tremens. That was always his word. I judged
And nothing stands but for his scythe to mow.
he would be blind drunk in about an hour, and then I would steal the
And yet to times in hope, my verse shall stand
In favour of this view, I may add, firstly, that C. livia, or the
key, or saw myself out, one or t’other. He drank and drank, and tumbled
rock-pigeon, has been found capable of domestication in Europe and in
Praising thy worth, despite his cruel hand.
India; and that it agrees in habits and in a great number of points of
down on his blankets by-and-by; but luck didn’t run my way. He didn’t
Is it thy will, thy image should keep open
structure with all the domestic breeds. Secondly, although an English
go sound asleep, but was uneasy. He groaned and moaned and thrashed
My heavy eyelids to the weary night?
Dost thou desire my slumbers should be broken,
around this way and that for a long time. At last I got so sleepy I
carrier or short-faced tumbler differs immensely in certain characters
couldn’t keep my eyes open all I could do, and so before I knowed what
from the rock-pigeon, yet by comparing the several sub-breeds of these
While shadows like to thee do mock my sight?
breeds, more especially those brought from distant countries, we can
Is it thy spirit that thou send’st from thee
I was about I was sound asleep, and the candle burning.
I don’t know how long I was asleep, but all of a sudden there was an
make an almost perfect series between the extremes of structure.
So far from home into my deeds to pry,
To find out shames and idle hours in me,
Thirdly, those characters which are mainly distinctive of each breed,
awful scream and I was up. There was pap looking wild, and skipping
for instance the wattle and length of beak of the carrier, the
around every which way and yelling about snakes. He said they was
The scope and tenure of thy jealousy?
O no, thy love though much, is not so great,
crawling up his legs; and then he would give a jump and scream, and say
shortness of that of the tumbler, and the number of tail-feathers in
one had bit him on the cheek—but I couldn’t see no snakes. He started
the fantail, are in each breed eminently variable; and the explanation
It is my love that keeps mine eye awake,
Mine own true love that doth my rest defeat,
and run round and round the cabin, hollering “Take him off! take him
of this fact will be obvious when we come to treat of selection.
Fourthly, pigeons have been watched, and tended with the utmost care,
off! he’s biting me on the neck!” I never see a man look so wild in the
To play the watchman ever for thy sake.
For thee watch I, whilst thou dost wake elsewhere,
and loved by many people. They have been domesticated for thousands of
eyes. Pretty soon he was all fagged out, and fell down panting; then he
rolled over and over wonderful fast, kicking things every which way,
years in several quarters of the world; the earliest known record of
From me far off, with others all too near.
pigeons is in the fifth Aegyptian dynasty, about 3000 B.C., as was
Sin of self-love possesseth all mine eye,
and striking and grabbing at the air with his hands, and screaming and
saying there was devils a-hold of him. He wore out by-and-by, and laid
And all my soul, and all my every part;
pointed out to me by Professor Lepsius; but Mr. Birch informs me that
And for this sin there is no remedy,
still a while, moaning. Then he laid stiller, and didn’t make a sound.
of fare in the previous dynasty. In the time of the Romans, as we hear
from Pliny, immense prices were given for pigeons; “nay, they are come
I could hear the owls and the wolves away off in the woods, and it
It is so grounded inward in my heart.
to this pass, that they can reckon up their pedigree and race.” Pigeons
Methinks no face so gracious is as mine,
seemed terrible still. He was laying over by the corner. By-and-by he
raised up part way and listened, with his head to one side. He says,
were much valued by Akber Khan in India, about the year 1600; never
No shape so true, no truth of such account,
And for my self mine own worth do define,
“Tramp—tramp—tramp; that’s the dead; tramp—tramp—tramp; they’re coming
less than 20,000 pigeons were taken with the court. “The monarchs of
Iran and Turan sent him some very rare birds;” and, continues the
after me; but I won’t go. Oh, they’re here! don’t touch me—don’t! hands
As I all other in all worths surmount.
off—they’re cold; let go. Oh, let a poor devil alone!”
But when my glass shows me my self indeed
courtly historian, “His Majesty by crossing the breeds, which method
beated and chopt with tanned antiquity,
Then he went down on all fours and crawled off, begging them to let him
was never practised before, has improved them astonishingly.” About
alone, and he rolled himself up in his blanket and wallowed in under
this same period the Dutch were as eager about pigeons as were the old
Mine own self-love quite contrary I read:
Self, so self-loving were iniquity.
the old pine table, still a-begging; and then he went to crying. I
Romans. The paramount importance of these considerations in explaining
could hear him through the blanket.
the immense amount of variation which pigeons have undergone, will be
’Tis thee, myself, that for myself I praise,
By-and-by he rolled out and jumped up on his feet looking wild, and he
obvious when we treat of Selection. We shall then, also, see how it is
Painting my age with beauty of thy days.
Against my love shall be as I am now
that the breeds so often have a somewhat monstrous character. It is
see me and went for me. He chased me round and round the place with a
With Time’s injurious hand crushed and o’erworn,
clasp-knife, calling me the Angel of Death, and saying he would kill
also a most favourable circumstance for the production of distinct
me, and then I couldn’t come for him no more. I begged, and told him I
breeds, that male and female pigeons can be easily mated for life; and
When hours have drained his blood and filled his brow
was only Huck; but he laughed _such_ a screechy laugh, and roared and
thus different breeds can be kept together in the same aviary.
With lines and wrinkles, when his youthful morn
cussed, and kept on chasing me up. Once when I turned short and dodged
I have discussed the probable origin of domestic pigeons at some, yet
Hath travelled on to age’s steepy night,
quite insufficient, length; because when I first kept pigeons and
under his arm he made a grab and got me by the jacket between my
And all those beauties whereof now he’s king
Are vanishing, or vanished out of sight,
watched the several kinds, knowing well how true they bred, I felt
shoulders, and I thought I was gone; but I slid out of the jacket quick
Stealing away the treasure of his spring:
fully as much difficulty in believing that they could ever have
as lightning, and saved myself. Pretty soon he was all tired out, and
For such a time do I now fortify
dropped down with his back against the door, and said he would rest a
descended from a common parent, as any naturalist could in coming to a
Against confounding age’s cruel knife,
similar conclusion in regard to the many species of finches, or other
minute and then kill me. He put his knife under him, and said he would
That he shall never cut from memory
large groups of birds, in nature. One circumstance has struck me much;
sleep and get strong, and then he would see who was who.
My sweet love’s beauty, though my lover’s life.
So he dozed off pretty soon. By-and-by I got the old split-bottom chair
namely, that all the breeders of the various domestic animals and the
and clumb up as easy as I could, not to make any noise, and got down
cultivators of plants, with whom I have ever conversed, or whose
His beauty shall in these black lines be seen,
the gun. I slipped the ramrod down it to make sure it was loaded, then
And they shall live, and he in them still green.
treatises I have read, are firmly convinced that the several breeds to
which each has attended, are descended from so many aboriginally
When I have seen by Time’s fell hand defaced
I laid it across the turnip barrel, pointing towards pap, and set down
behind it to wait for him to stir. And how slow and still the time did
Ask, as I have asked, a celebrated raiser of Hereford cattle, whether
The rich-proud cost of outworn buried age,
I opened my eyes and looked around, trying to make out where I was. It
his cattle might not have descended from long horns, and he will laugh
When sometime lofty towers I see down-rased,
And brass eternal slave to mortal rage.
was after sun-up, and I had been sound asleep. Pap was standing over me
you to scorn. I have never met a pigeon, or poultry, or duck, or rabbit
looking sour and sick, too. He says:
When I have seen the hungry ocean gain
fancier, who was not fully convinced that each main breed was descended
from a distinct species. Van Mons, in his treatise on pears and apples,
Advantage on the kingdom of the shore,
“What you doin’ with this gun?”
And the firm soil win of the watery main,
shows how utterly he disbelieves that the several sorts, for instance a
I judged he didn’t know nothing about what he had been doing, so I
Ribston-pippin or Codlin-apple, could ever have proceeded from the
Increasing store with loss, and loss with store.
“Somebody tried to get in, so I was laying for him.”
When I have seen such interchange of State,
seeds of the same tree. Innumerable other examples could be given. The
“Why didn’t you roust me out?”
explanation, I think, is simple: from long-continued study they are
Or state it self confounded, to decay,
“Well, I tried to, but I couldn’t; I couldn’t budge you.”
Ruin hath taught me thus to ruminate:
strongly impressed with the differences between the several races; and
“Well, all right. Don’t stand there palavering all day, but out with
That Time will come and take my love away.
you and see if there’s a fish on the lines for breakfast. I’ll be along
though they well know that each race varies slightly, for they win
This thought is as a death which cannot choose
their prizes by selecting such slight differences, yet they ignore all
He unlocked the door, and I cleared out up the river-bank. I noticed
But weep to have, that which it fears to lose.
general arguments, and refuse to sum up in their minds slight
some pieces of limbs and such things floating down, and a sprinkling of
bark; so I knowed the river had begun to rise. I reckoned I would have
differences accumulated during many successive generations. May not
Since brass, nor stone, nor earth, nor boundless sea,
But sad mortality o’ersways their power,
great times now if I was over at the town. The June rise used to be
those naturalists who, knowing far less of the laws of inheritance than
always luck for me; because as soon as that rise begins here comes
How with this rage shall beauty hold a plea,
does the breeder, and knowing no more than he does of the intermediate
links in the long lines of descent, yet admit that many of our domestic
cordwood floating down, and pieces of log rafts—sometimes a dozen logs
Whose action is no stronger than a flower?
O how shall summer’s honey breath hold out,
together; so all you have to do is to catch them and sell them to the
races have descended from the same parents—may they not learn a lesson
I went along up the bank with one eye out for pap and t’other one out
of caution, when they deride the idea of species in a state of nature
Against the wrackful siege of batt’ring days,
for what the rise might fetch along. Well, all at once here comes a
When rocks impregnable are not so stout,
being lineal descendants of other species?
Nor gates of steel so strong but time decays?
_Selection_.—Let us now briefly consider the steps by which domestic
canoe; just a beauty, too, about thirteen or fourteen foot long, riding
O fearful meditation, where alack,
high like a duck. I shot head-first off of the bank like a frog,
races have been produced, either from one or from several allied
Shall Time’s best jewel from Time’s chest lie hid?
clothes and all on, and struck out for the canoe. I just expected
species. Some little effect may, perhaps, be attributed to the direct
there’d be somebody laying down in it, because people often done that
Or what strong hand can hold his swift foot back,
action of the external conditions of life, and some little to habit;
but he would be a bold man who would account by such agencies for the
to fool folks, and when a chap had pulled a skiff out most to it they’d
Or who his spoil of beauty can forbid?
differences of a dray and race horse, a greyhound and bloodhound, a
O none, unless this miracle have might,
raise up and laugh at him. But it warn’t so this time. It was a
carrier and tumbler pigeon. One of the most remarkable features in our
drift-canoe sure enough, and I clumb in and paddled her ashore. Thinks
That in black ink my love may still shine bright.
I, the old man will be glad when he sees this—she’s worth ten dollars.
is that we see in them adaptation, not indeed to the animal’s or
Tired with all these, for restful death I cry:
As to behold desert a beggar born,
But when I got to shore pap wasn’t in sight yet, and as I was running
plant’s own good, but to man’s use or fancy. Some variations useful to
him have probably arisen suddenly, or by one step; many botanists, for
And needy nothing trimmed in jollity,
her into a little creek like a gully, all hung over with vines and
instance, believe that the fuller’s teazle, with its hooks, which
And purest faith unhappily forsworn,
willows, I struck another idea: I judged I’d hide her good, and then,
cannot be rivalled by any mechanical contrivance, is only a variety of
And gilded honour shamefully misplaced,
’stead of taking to the woods when I run off, I’d go down the river
the wild Dipsacus; and this amount of change may have suddenly arisen
And maiden virtue rudely strumpeted,
about fifty mile and camp in one place for good, and not have such a
And right perfection wrongfully disgraced,
It was pretty close to the shanty, and I thought I heard the old man
in a seedling. So it has probably been with the turnspit dog; and this
coming all the time; but I got her hid; and then I out and looked
is known to have been the case with the ancon sheep. But when we
And strength by limping sway disabled
compare the dray-horse and race-horse, the dromedary and camel, the
And art made tongue-tied by authority,
around a bunch of willows, and there was the old man down the path a
piece just drawing a bead on a bird with his gun. So he hadn’t seen
various breeds of sheep fitted either for cultivated land or mountain
And folly, doctor-like, controlling skill,
And simple truth miscalled simplicity,
When he got along I was hard at it taking up a “trot” line. He abused
pasture, with the wool of one breed good for one purpose, and that of
another breed for another purpose; when we compare the many breeds of
And captive good attending captain ill.
me a little for being so slow; but I told him I fell in the river, and
dogs, each good for man in very different ways; when we compare the
that was what made me so long. I knowed he would see I was wet, and
Tired with all these, from these would I be gone,
game-cock, so pertinacious in battle, with other breeds so little
then he would be asking questions. We got five catfish off the lines
Save that to die, I leave my love alone.
Ah wherefore with infection should he live,
quarrelsome, with “everlasting layers” which never desire to sit, and
While we laid off after breakfast to sleep up, both of us being about
with the bantam so small and elegant; when we compare the host of
And with his presence grace impiety,
wore out, I got to thinking that if I could fix up some way to keep pap
and the widow from trying to follow me, it would be a certainer thing
agricultural, culinary, orchard, and flower-garden races of plants,
That sin by him advantage should achieve,
And lace it self with his society?
than trusting to luck to get far enough off before they missed me; you
most useful to man at different seasons and for different purposes, or
see, all kinds of things might happen. Well, I didn’t see no way for a
so beautiful in his eyes, we must, I think, look further than to mere
Why should false painting imitate his cheek,
And steal dead seeming of his living hue?
variability. We cannot suppose that all the breeds were suddenly
while, but by-and-by pap raised up a minute to drink another barrel of
“Another time a man comes a-prowling round here you roust me out, you
Why should poor beauty indirectly seek,
produced as perfect and as useful as we now see them; indeed, in
Roses of shadow, since his rose is true?
several cases, we know that this has not been their history. The key is
hear? That man warn’t here for no good. I’d a shot him. Next time you
Then he dropped down and went to sleep again; but what he had been
man’s power of accumulative selection: nature gives successive
Why should he live, now nature bankrupt is,
variations; man adds them up in certain directions useful to him. In
Beggared of blood to blush through lively veins,
saying give me the very idea I wanted. I says to myself, I can fix it
now so nobody won’t think of following me.
For she hath no exchequer now but his,
this sense he may be said to make for himself useful breeds.
About twelve o’clock we turned out and went along up the bank. The
The great power of this principle of selection is not hypothetical. It
And proud of many, lives upon his gains?
O him she stores, to show what wealth she had,
is certain that several of our eminent breeders have, even within a
river was coming up pretty fast, and lots of driftwood going by on the
In days long since, before these last so bad.
a large extent some breeds of cattle and sheep. In order fully to
rise. By-and-by along comes part of a log raft—nine logs fast together.
We went out with the skiff and towed it ashore. Then we had dinner.
Thus is his cheek the map of days outworn,
realise what they have done, it is almost necessary to read several of
When beauty lived and died as flowers do now,
the many treatises devoted to this subject, and to inspect the animals.
Anybody but pap would a waited and seen the day through, so as to catch
Breeders habitually speak of an animal’s organisation as something
Before these bastard signs of fair were born,
more stuff; but that warn’t pap’s style. Nine logs was enough for one
time; he must shove right over to town and sell. So he locked me in and
Or durst inhabit on a living brow:
quite plastic, which they can model almost as they please. If I had
space I could quote numerous passages to this effect from highly
took the skiff, and started off towing the raft about half-past three.
Before the golden tresses of the dead,
competent authorities. Youatt, who was probably better acquainted with
I judged he wouldn’t come back that night. I waited till I reckoned he
The right of sepulchres, were shorn away,
the works of agriculturalists than almost any other individual, and who
had got a good start; then I out with my saw, and went to work on that
To live a second life on second head,
log again. Before he was t’other side of the river I was out of the
was himself a very good judge of an animal, speaks of the principle of
Ere beauty’s dead fleece made another gay:
selection as “that which enables the agriculturist, not only to modify
In him those holy antique hours are seen,
hole; him and his raft was just a speck on the water away off yonder.
the character of his flock, but to change it altogether. It is the
I took the sack of corn meal and took it to where the canoe was hid,
Without all ornament, it self and true,
magician’s wand, by means of which he may summon into life whatever
and shoved the vines and branches apart and put it in; then I done the
Making no summer of another’s green,
form and mould he pleases.” Lord Somerville, speaking of what breeders
same with the side of bacon; then the whisky-jug. I took all the coffee
Robbing no old to dress his beauty new,
and sugar there was, and all the ammunition; I took the wadding; I took
And him as for a map doth Nature store,
have done for sheep, says:—“It would seem as if they had chalked out
the bucket and gourd; I took a dipper and a tin cup, and my old saw and
To show false Art what beauty was of yore.
upon a wall a form perfect in itself, and then had given it existence.”
Those parts of thee that the world’s eye doth view,
two blankets, and the skillet and the coffee-pot. I took fish-lines and
That most skilful breeder, Sir John Sebright, used to say, with respect
Want nothing that the thought of hearts can mend:
matches and other things—everything that was worth a cent. I cleaned
to pigeons, that “he would produce any given feather in three years,
out the place. I wanted an axe, but there wasn’t any, only the one out
but it would take him six years to obtain head and beak.” In Saxony the
All tongues, the voice of souls, give thee that due,
importance of the principle of selection in regard to merino sheep is
at the woodpile, and I knowed why I was going to leave that. I fetched
Uttering bare truth, even so as foes commend.
Thy outward thus with outward praise is crowned,
so fully recognised, that men follow it as a trade: the sheep are
out the gun, and now I was done.
I had wore the ground a good deal crawling out of the hole and dragging
placed on a table and are studied, like a picture by a connoisseur;
But those same tongues that give thee so thine own,
this is done three times at intervals of months, and the sheep are each
out so many things. So I fixed that as good as I could from the outside
In other accents do this praise confound
By seeing farther than the eye hath shown.
by scattering dust on the place, which covered up the smoothness and
time marked and classed, so that the very best may ultimately be
the sawdust. Then I fixed the piece of log back into its place, and put
They look into the beauty of thy mind,
What English breeders have actually effected is proved by the enormous
two rocks under it and one against it to hold it there, for it was bent
prices given for animals with a good pedigree; and these have now been
And that in guess they measure by thy deeds,
exported to almost every quarter of the world. The improvement is by no
Then churls their thoughts (although their eyes were kind)
up at that place and didn’t quite touch ground. If you stood four or
To thy fair flower add the rank smell of weeds:
five foot away and didn’t know it was sawed, you wouldn’t never notice
means generally due to crossing different breeds;
But why thy odour matcheth not thy show,
it; and besides, this was the back of the cabin, and it warn’t likely
all the best breeders are strongly opposed to this practice, except
sometimes amongst closely allied sub-breeds. And when a cross has been
anybody would go fooling around there.
The soil is this, that thou dost common grow.
It was all grass clear to the canoe, so I hadn’t left a track. I
made, the closest selection is far more indispensable even than in
That thou art blamed shall not be thy defect,
followed around to see. I stood on the bank and looked out over the
ordinary cases. If selection consisted merely in separating some very
For slander’s mark was ever yet the fair,
The ornament of beauty is suspect,
distinct variety, and breeding from it, the principle would be so
river. All safe. So I took the gun and went up a piece into the woods,
obvious as hardly to be worth notice; but its importance consists in
and was hunting around for some birds when I see a wild pig; hogs soon
A crow that flies in heaven’s sweetest air.
went wild in them bottoms after they had got away from the prairie
So thou be good, slander doth but approve,
the great effect produced by the accumulation in one direction, during
successive generations, of differences absolutely inappreciable by an
farms. I shot this fellow and took him into camp.
Thy worth the greater being wooed of time,
uneducated eye—differences which I for one have vainly attempted to
I took the axe and smashed in the door. I beat it and hacked it
For canker vice the sweetest buds doth love,
considerable a-doing it. I fetched the pig in, and took him back nearly
And thou present’st a pure unstained prime.
appreciate. Not one man in a thousand has accuracy of eye and judgment
sufficient to become an eminent breeder. If gifted with these
Thou hast passed by the ambush of young days,
to the table and hacked into his throat with the axe, and laid him down
qualities, and he studies his subject for years, and devotes his
Either not assailed, or victor being charged,
on the ground to bleed; I say ground because it _was_ ground—hard
packed, and no boards. Well, next I took an old sack and put a lot of
Yet this thy praise cannot be so thy praise,
lifetime to it with indomitable perseverance, he will succeed, and may
To tie up envy, evermore enlarged,
big rocks in it—all I could drag—and I started it from the pig, and
make great improvements; if he wants any of these qualities, he will
dragged it to the door and through the woods down to the river and
assuredly fail. Few would readily believe in the natural capacity and
If some suspect of ill masked not thy show,
dumped it in, and down it sunk, out of sight. You could easy see that
years of practice requisite to become even a skilful pigeon-fancier.
Then thou alone kingdoms of hearts shouldst owe.
No longer mourn for me when I am dead,
The same principles are followed by horticulturists; but the variations
something had been dragged over the ground. I did wish Tom Sawyer was
there; I knowed he would take an interest in this kind of business, and
are here often more abrupt. No one supposes that our choicest
Than you shall hear the surly sullen bell
Give warning to the world that I am fled
throw in the fancy touches. Nobody could spread himself like Tom Sawyer
productions have been produced by a single variation from the
aboriginal stock. We have proofs that this is not so in some cases, in
Well, last I pulled out some of my hair, and blooded the axe good, and
From this vile world with vilest worms to dwell:
stuck it on the back side, and slung the axe in the corner. Then I took
which exact records have been kept; thus, to give a very trifling
Nay if you read this line, remember not,
The hand that writ it, for I love you so,
up the pig and held him to my breast with my jacket (so he couldn’t
instance, the steadily-increasing size of the common gooseberry may be
quoted. We see an astonishing improvement in many florists’ flowers,
That I in your sweet thoughts would be forgot,
drip) till I got a good piece below the house and then dumped him into
If thinking on me then should make you woe.
the river. Now I thought of something else. So I went and got the bag
when the flowers of the present day are compared with drawings made
of meal and my old saw out of the canoe, and fetched them to the house.
O if, I say, you look upon this verse,
only twenty or thirty years ago. When a race of plants is once pretty
When I (perhaps) compounded am with clay,
well established, the seed-raisers do not pick out the best plants, but
I took the bag to where it used to stand, and ripped a hole in the
merely go over their seed-beds, and pull up the “rogues,” as they call
Do not so much as my poor name rehearse;
bottom of it with the saw, for there warn’t no knives and forks on the
the plants that deviate from the proper standard. With animals this
place—pap done everything with his clasp-knife about the cooking. Then
But let your love even with my life decay.
kind of selection is, in fact, also followed; for hardly any one is so
Lest the wise world should look into your moan,
I carried the sack about a hundred yards across the grass and through
the willows east of the house, to a shallow lake that was five mile
careless as to allow his worst animals to breed.
And mock you with me after I am gone.
wide and full of rushes—and ducks too, you might say, in the season.
O lest the world should task you to recite,
In regard to plants, there is another means of observing the
There was a slough or a creek leading out of it on the other side that
What merit lived in me that you should love
accumulated effects of selection—namely, by comparing the diversity of
After my death, dear love, forget me quite,
flowers in the different varieties of the same species in the
went miles away, I don’t know where, but it didn’t go to the river. The
flower-garden; the diversity of leaves, pods, or tubers, or whatever
meal sifted out and made a little track all the way to the lake. I
For you in me can nothing worthy prove.
dropped pap’s whetstone there too, so as to look like it had been done
part is valued, in the kitchen-garden, in comparison with the flowers
Unless you would devise some virtuous lie,
of the same varieties; and the diversity of fruit of the same species
To do more for me than mine own desert,
by accident. Then I tied up the rip in the meal sack with a string, so
it wouldn’t leak no more, and took it and my saw to the canoe again.
in the orchard, in comparison with the leaves and flowers of the same
And hang more praise upon deceased I,
It was about dark now; so I dropped the canoe down the river under some
set of varieties. See how different the leaves of the cabbage are, and
Than niggard truth would willingly impart:
O lest your true love may seem false in this,
how extremely alike the flowers; how unlike the flowers of the
willows that hung over the bank, and waited for the moon to rise. I
That you for love speak well of me untrue,
made fast to a willow; then I took a bite to eat, and by-and-by laid
heartsease are, and how alike the leaves; how much the fruit of the
down in the canoe to smoke a pipe and lay out a plan. I says to myself,
My name be buried where my body is,
different kinds of gooseberries differ in size, colour, shape, and
And live no more to shame nor me, nor you.
they’ll follow the track of that sackful of rocks to the shore and then
hairiness, and yet the flowers present very slight differences. It is
not that the varieties which differ largely in some one point do not
drag the river for me. And they’ll follow that meal track to the lake
For I am shamed by that which I bring forth,
differ at all in other points; this is hardly ever, perhaps never, the
And so should you, to love things nothing worth.
and go browsing down the creek that leads out of it to find the robbers
case. The laws of correlation of growth, the importance of which should
that killed me and took the things. They won’t ever hunt the river for
That time of year thou mayst in me behold,
anything but my dead carcass. They’ll soon get tired of that, and won’t
never be overlooked, will ensure some differences; but, as a general
When yellow leaves, or none, or few do hang
rule, I cannot doubt that the continued selection of slight variations,
Upon those boughs which shake against the cold,
bother no more about me. All right; I can stop anywhere I want to.
either in the leaves, the flowers, or the fruit, will produce races
Bare ruined choirs, where late the sweet birds sang.
Jackson’s Island is good enough for me; I know that island pretty well,
In me thou seest the twilight of such day,
and nobody ever comes there. And then I can paddle over to town nights,
differing from each other chiefly in these characters.
and slink around and pick up things I want. Jackson’s Island’s the
As after sunset fadeth in the west,
It may be objected that the principle of selection has been reduced to
methodical practice for scarcely more than three-quarters of a century;
I was pretty tired, and the first thing I knowed I was asleep. When I
Which by and by black night doth take away,
Death’s second self that seals up all in rest.
it has certainly been more attended to of late years, and many
woke up I didn’t know where I was for a minute. I set up and looked
In me thou seest the glowing of such fire,
around, a little scared. Then I remembered. The river looked miles and
treatises have been published on the subject; and the result, I may
miles across. The moon was so bright I could a counted the drift logs
add, has been, in a corresponding degree, rapid and important. But it
That on the ashes of his youth doth lie,
is very far from true that the principle is a modern discovery. I could
As the death-bed, whereon it must expire,
that went a-slipping along, black and still, hundreds of yards out from
shore. Everything was dead quiet, and it looked late, and _smelt_ late.
give several references to the full acknowledgment of the importance of
Consumed with that which it was nourished by.
You know what I mean—I don’t know the words to put it in.
the principle in works of high antiquity. In rude and
This thou perceiv’st, which makes thy love more strong,
To love that well, which thou must leave ere long.
I took a good gap and a stretch, and was just going to unhitch and
barbarous periods of English history choice animals were often
imported, and laws were passed to prevent their exportation: the
start when I heard a sound away over the water. I listened. Pretty soon
But be contented when that fell arrest,
Without all bail shall carry me away,
destruction of horses under a certain size was ordered, and this may be
I made it out. It was that dull kind of a regular sound that comes from
oars working in rowlocks when it’s a still night. I peeped out through
My life hath in this line some interest,
compared to the “roguing” of plants by nurserymen. The principle of
Which for memorial still with thee shall stay.
the willow branches, and there it was—a skiff, away across the water. I
selection I find distinctly given in an ancient Chinese encyclopædia.
When thou reviewest this, thou dost review,
couldn’t tell how many was in it. It kept a-coming, and when it was
Explicit rules are laid down by some of the Roman classical writers.
The very part was consecrate to thee,
From passages in Genesis, it is clear that the colour of domestic
abreast of me I see there warn’t but one man in it. Think’s I, maybe
animals was at that early period attended to. Savages now sometimes
The earth can have but earth, which is his due,
it’s pap, though I warn’t expecting him. He dropped below me with the
current, and by-and-by he came a-swinging up shore in the easy water,
cross their dogs with wild canine animals, to improve the breed, and
My spirit is thine the better part of me,
they formerly did so, as is attested by passages in Pliny. The savages
So then thou hast but lost the dregs of life,
and he went by so close I could a reached out the gun and touched him.
Well, it _was_ pap, sure enough—and sober, too, by the way he laid his
The prey of worms, my body being dead,
in South Africa match their draught cattle by colour, as do some of the
Esquimaux their teams of dogs. Livingstone shows how much good domestic
The coward conquest of a wretch’s knife,
I didn’t lose no time. The next minute I was a-spinning down stream
breeds are valued by the negroes of the interior of Africa who have not
soft but quick in the shade of the bank. I made two mile and a half,
Too base of thee to be remembered,
The worth of that, is that which it contains,
and then struck out a quarter of a mile or more towards the middle of
associated with Europeans. Some of these facts do not show actual
selection, but they show that the breeding of domestic animals was
And that is this, and this with thee remains.
the river, because pretty soon I would be passing the ferry landing,
So are you to my thoughts as food to life,
and people might see me and hail me. I got out amongst the driftwood,
carefully attended to in ancient times, and is now attended to by the
and then laid down in the bottom of the canoe and let her float.
lowest savages. It would, indeed, have been a strange fact, had
Or as sweet-seasoned showers are to the ground;
attention not been paid to breeding, for the inheritance of good and
And for the peace of you I hold such strife
I laid there, and had a good rest and a smoke out of my pipe, looking
As ’twixt a miser and his wealth is found.
At the present time, eminent breeders try by methodical selection, with
away into the sky; not a cloud in it. The sky looks ever so deep when
a distinct object in view, to make a new strain or sub-breed, superior
Now proud as an enjoyer, and anon
you lay down on your back in the moonshine; I never knowed it before.
And how far a body can hear on the water such nights! I heard people
Doubting the filching age will steal his treasure,
to anything existing in the country. But, for our purpose, a kind of
talking at the ferry landing. I heard what they said, too—every word of
Now counting best to be with you alone,
Selection, which may be called Unconscious, and which results from
every one trying to possess and breed from the best individual animals,
Then bettered that the world may see my pleasure,
it. One man said it was getting towards the long days and the short
is more important. Thus, a man who intends keeping pointers naturally
Sometime all full with feasting on your sight,
nights now. T’other one said _this_ warn’t one of the short ones, he
And by and by clean starved for a look,
tries to get as good dogs as he can, and afterwards breeds from his own
reckoned—and then they laughed, and he said it over again, and they
laughed again; then they waked up another fellow and told him, and
best dogs, but he has no wish or expectation of permanently altering
Possessing or pursuing no delight
Save what is had, or must from you be took.
the breed. Nevertheless I cannot
laughed, but he didn’t laugh; he ripped out something brisk, and said
let him alone. The first fellow said he ’lowed to tell it to his old
Thus do I pine and surfeit day by day,
doubt that this process, continued during centuries, would improve and
woman—she would think it was pretty good; but he said that warn’t
modify any breed, in the same way as Bakewell, Collins, etc., by this
Or gluttoning on all, or all away.
Why is my verse so barren of new pride?
very same process, only carried on more methodically, did greatly
nothing to some things he had said in his time. I heard one man say it
was nearly three o’clock, and he hoped daylight wouldn’t wait more than
So far from variation or quick change?
modify, even during their own lifetimes, the forms and qualities of
their cattle. Slow and insensible changes of this kind could never be
about a week longer. After that the talk got further and further away,
Why with the time do I not glance aside
To new-found methods, and to compounds strange?
recognised unless actual measurements or careful drawings of the breeds
and I couldn’t make out the words any more; but I could hear the
Why write I still all one, ever the same,
mumble, and now and then a laugh, too, but it seemed a long ways off.
in question had been made long ago, which might serve for comparison.
In some cases, however, unchanged or but little changed individuals of
I was away below the ferry now. I rose up, and there was Jackson’s
And keep invention in a noted weed,
the same breed may be found in less civilised districts, where the
Island, about two mile and a half down stream, heavy timbered and
That every word doth almost tell my name,
standing up out of the middle of the river, big and dark and solid,
breed has been less improved. There is reason to believe that King
Showing their birth, and where they did proceed?
Charles’s spaniel has been unconsciously modified to a large extent
O know sweet love I always write of you,
like a steamboat without any lights. There warn’t any signs of the bar
And you and love are still my argument:
since the time of that monarch. Some highly competent authorities are
at the head—it was all under water now.
So all my best is dressing old words new,
It didn’t take me long to get there. I shot past the head at a ripping
convinced that the setter is directly derived from the spaniel, and has
probably been slowly altered from it. It is known that the English
Spending again what is already spent:
rate, the current was so swift, and then I got into the dead water and
For as the sun is daily new and old,
landed on the side towards the Illinois shore. I run the canoe into a
pointer has been greatly changed within the last century, and in this
So is my love still telling what is told.
deep dent in the bank that I knowed about; I had to part the willow
case the change has, it is believed, been chiefly effected by crosses
branches to get in; and when I made fast nobody could a seen the canoe
Thy glass will show thee how thy beauties wear,
with the fox-hound; but what concerns us is, that the change has been
Thy dial how thy precious minutes waste,
I went up and set down on a log at the head of the island, and looked
effected unconsciously and gradually, and yet so effectually, that,
out on the big river and the black driftwood and away over to the town,
These vacant leaves thy mind’s imprint will bear,
though the old Spanish pointer certainly came from Spain, Mr. Borrow
And of this book, this learning mayst thou taste.
has not seen, as I am informed by him, any native dog in Spain like our
three mile away, where there was three or four lights twinkling. A
By a similar process of selection, and by careful training, the whole
The wrinkles which thy glass will truly show,
monstrous big lumber-raft was about a mile up stream, coming along
Of mouthed graves will give thee memory,
body of English racehorses have come to surpass in fleetness and size
down, with a lantern in the middle of it. I watched it come creeping
down, and when it was most abreast of where I stood I heard a man say,
the parent Arab stock, so that the latter, by the regulations for the
Thou by thy dial’s shady stealth mayst know,
Time’s thievish progress to eternity.
“Stern oars, there! heave her head to stabboard!” I heard that just as
Goodwood Races, are favoured in the weights they carry. Lord Spencer
plain as if the man was by my side.
and others have shown how the cattle of England have increased in
Look what thy memory cannot contain,
weight and in early maturity, compared with the stock formerly kept in
Commit to these waste blanks, and thou shalt find
There was a little gray in the sky now; so I stepped into the woods,
this country. By comparing the accounts given in old pigeon treatises
and laid down for a nap before breakfast.
Those children nursed, delivered from thy brain,
To take a new acquaintance of thy mind.
The sun was up so high when I waked that I judged it was after eight
and tumblers with these breeds as now existing in Britain, India, and
o’clock. I laid there in the grass and the cool shade thinking about
Persia, we can, I think, clearly trace the stages through which they
These offices, so oft as thou wilt look,
have insensibly passed, and come to differ so greatly from the
things, and feeling rested and ruther comfortable and satisfied. I
Shall profit thee, and much enrich thy book.
Youatt gives an excellent illustration of the effects of a course of
So oft have I invoked thee for my muse,
could see the sun out at one or two holes, but mostly it was big trees
And found such fair assistance in my verse,
selection, which may be considered as unconsciously followed, in so far
all about, and gloomy in there amongst them. There was freckled places
that the breeders could never have expected or even have wished to have
As every alien pen hath got my use,
on the ground where the light sifted down through the leaves, and the
And under thee their poesy disperse.
freckled places swapped about a little, showing there was a little
produced the result which ensued—namely, the production of two distinct
breeze up there. A couple of squirrels set on a limb and jabbered at me
strains. The two flocks of Leicester sheep kept by Mr. Buckley and Mr.
Thine eyes, that taught the dumb on high to sing,
And heavy ignorance aloft to fly,
I was powerful lazy and comfortable—didn’t want to get up and cook
Burgess, as Mr. Youatt remarks, “have been purely bred from the
Have added feathers to the learned’s wing,
original stock of Mr. Bakewell for upwards of fifty years. There is not
breakfast. Well, I was dozing off again when I thinks I hears a deep
a suspicion existing in the mind of any one at all acquainted with the
sound of “boom!” away up the river. I rouses up, and rests on my elbow
And given grace a double majesty.
Yet be most proud of that which I compile,
subject that the owner of either of them has deviated in any one
and listens; pretty soon I hears it again. I hopped up, and went and
instance from the pure blood of Mr. Bakewell’s flock, and yet the
Whose influence is thine, and born of thee,
looked out at a hole in the leaves, and I see a bunch of smoke laying
difference between the sheep possessed by these two gentlemen is so
In others’ works thou dost but mend the style,
on the water a long ways up—about abreast the ferry. And there was the
great that they have the appearance of being quite different
And arts with thy sweet graces graced be.
ferry-boat full of people floating along down. I knowed what was the
matter now. “Boom!” I see the white smoke squirt out of the ferry-boat’s
But thou art all my art, and dost advance
If there exist savages so barbarous as never to think of the inherited
As high as learning, my rude ignorance.
character of the offspring of their domestic animals, yet any one
side. You see, they was firing cannon over the water, trying to make my
animal particularly useful to them, for any special purpose, would be
I was pretty hungry, but it warn’t going to do for me to start a fire,
Whilst I alone did call upon thy aid,
because they might see the smoke. So I set there and watched the
My verse alone had all thy gentle grace,
carefully preserved during famines and other accidents, to which
cannon-smoke and listened to the boom. The river was a mile wide there,
But now my gracious numbers are decayed,
savages are so liable, and such choice animals would thus generally
and it always looks pretty on a summer morning—so I was having a good
leave more offspring than the inferior ones; so that in this case there
And my sick muse doth give an other place.
would be a kind of unconscious selection going on. We see the value set
I grant (sweet love) thy lovely argument
enough time seeing them hunt for my remainders if I only had a bite to
Deserves the travail of a worthier pen,
on animals even by the barbarians of Tierra del Fuego, by their killing
eat. Well, then I happened to think how they always put quicksilver in
loaves of bread and float them off, because they always go right to the
and devouring their old women, in times of dearth, as of less value
Yet what of thee thy poet doth invent,
drownded carcass and stop there. So, says I, I’ll keep a lookout, and
He robs thee of, and pays it thee again,
In plants the same gradual process of improvement, through the
He lends thee virtue, and he stole that word,
if any of them’s floating around after me I’ll give them a show. I
occasional preservation of the best individuals, whether or not
sufficiently distinct to be ranked
From thy behaviour, beauty doth he give
changed to the Illinois edge of the island to see what luck I could
have, and I warn’t disappointed. A big double loaf come along, and I
at their first appearance as distinct varieties, and whether or not two
And found it in thy cheek: he can afford
most got it with a long stick, but my foot slipped and she floated out
No praise to thee, but what in thee doth live.
or more species or races have become blended together by crossing, may
further. Of course I was where the current set in the closest to the
plainly be recognised in the increased size and beauty which we now see
Then thank him not for that which he doth say,
shore—I knowed enough for that. But by-and-by along comes another one,
Since what he owes thee, thou thyself dost pay.
in the varieties of the heartsease, rose, pelargonium, dahlia, and
O how I faint when I of you do write,
and this time I won. I took out the plug and shook out the little dab
other plants, when compared with the older varieties or with their
Knowing a better spirit doth use your name,
of quicksilver, and set my teeth in. It was “baker’s bread”—what the
parent-stocks. No one would ever expect to get a first-rate heartsease
quality eat; none of your low-down corn-pone.
And in the praise thereof spends all his might,
or dahlia from the seed of a wild plant. No one would expect to raise a
To make me tongue-tied speaking of your fame.
first-rate melting pear from the seed of a wild pear, though he might
I got a good place amongst the leaves, and set there on a log, munching
succeed from a poor seedling growing wild, if it had come from a
But since your worth, wide as the ocean is,
the bread and watching the ferry-boat, and very well satisfied. And
garden-stock. The pear, though cultivated in classical times, appears,
then something struck me. I says, now I reckon the widow or the parson
The humble as the proudest sail doth bear,
or somebody prayed that this bread would find me, and here it has gone
My saucy bark (inferior far to his)
from Pliny’s description, to have been a fruit of very inferior
On your broad main doth wilfully appear.
and done it. So there ain’t no doubt but there is something in that
quality. I have seen great surprise expressed in horticultural works at
the wonderful skill of gardeners, in having produced such splendid
thing—that is, there’s something in it when a body like the widow or
Your shallowest help will hold me up afloat,
Whilst he upon your soundless deep doth ride,
results from such poor materials; but the art, I cannot doubt, has been
the parson prays, but it don’t work for me, and I reckon it don’t work
simple, and, as far as the final result is concerned, has been followed
Or (being wrecked) I am a worthless boat,
I lit a pipe and had a good long smoke, and went on watching. The
He of tall building, and of goodly pride.
almost unconsciously. It has consisted in always cultivating the best
ferry-boat was floating with the current, and I allowed I’d have a
chance to see who was aboard when she come along, because she would
Then if he thrive and I be cast away,
known variety, sowing its seeds, and, when a slightly better variety
The worst was this: my love was my decay.
come in close, where the bread did. When she’d got pretty well along
has chanced to appear, selecting it, and so onwards. But the gardeners
down towards me, I put out my pipe and went to where I fished out the
of the classical period, who cultivated the best pear they could
Or I shall live your epitaph to make,
Or you survive when I in earth am rotten,
procure, never thought what splendid fruit we should eat; though we owe
bread, and laid down behind a log on the bank in a little open place.
Where the log forked I could peep through.
From hence your memory death cannot take,
our excellent fruit, in some small degree, to their having naturally
Although in me each part will be forgotten.
By-and-by she come along, and she drifted in so close that they could a
chosen and preserved the best varieties they could anywhere find.
A large amount of change in our cultivated plants, thus slowly and
Your name from hence immortal life shall have,
run out a plank and walked ashore. Most everybody was on the boat. Pap,
unconsciously accumulated, explains, as I believe, the well-known fact,
Though I (once gone) to all the world must die,
and Judge Thatcher, and Bessie Thatcher, and Jo Harper, and Tom Sawyer,
The earth can yield me but a common grave,
that in a vast number of cases we cannot recognise, and therefore do
and his old Aunt Polly, and Sid and Mary, and plenty more. Everybody
not know, the wild parent-stocks of the plants which have been longest
When you entombed in men’s eyes shall lie,
was talking about the murder, but the captain broke in and says:
Your monument shall be my gentle verse,
cultivated in our flower and kitchen gardens. If it has taken centuries
“Look sharp, now; the current sets in the closest here, and maybe he’s
washed ashore and got tangled amongst the brush at the water’s edge. I
Which eyes not yet created shall o’er-read,
or thousands of years to improve
or modify most of our plants up to their present standard of usefulness
I didn’t hope so. They all crowded up and leaned over the rails, nearly
And tongues to be, your being shall rehearse,
to man, we can understand how it is that neither Australia, the Cape of
When all the breathers of this world are dead,
in my face, and kept still, watching with all their might. I could see
Good Hope, nor any other region inhabited by quite uncivilised man, has
You still shall live, such virtue hath my pen,
them first-rate, but they couldn’t see me. Then the captain sung out:
Where breath most breathes, even in the mouths of men.
afforded us a single plant worth culture. It is not that these
“Stand away!” and the cannon let off such a blast right before me that
it made me deef with the noise and pretty near blind with the smoke,
I grant thou wert not married to my muse,
countries, so rich in species, do not by a strange chance possess the
aboriginal stocks of any useful plants, but that the native plants have
and I judged I was gone. If they’d a had some bullets in, I reckon
And therefore mayst without attaint o’erlook
not been improved by continued selection up to a standard of perfection
The dedicated words which writers use
they’d a got the corpse they was after. Well, I see I warn’t hurt,
comparable with that given to the plants in countries anciently
Of their fair subject, blessing every book.
thanks to goodness. The boat floated on and went out of sight around
the shoulder of the island. I could hear the booming now and then,
Thou art as fair in knowledge as in hue,
In regard to the domestic animals kept by uncivilised man, it should
further and further off, and by-and-by, after an hour, I didn’t hear it
not be overlooked that they almost always have to struggle for their
Finding thy worth a limit past my praise,
And therefore art enforced to seek anew,
no more. The island was three mile long. I judged they had got to the
own food, at least during certain seasons. And in two countries very
differently circumstanced, individuals of the same species, having
Some fresher stamp of the time-bettering days.
foot, and was giving it up. But they didn’t yet a while. They turned
around the foot of the island and started up the channel on the
slightly different constitutions or structure, would often succeed
And do so love, yet when they have devised,
Missouri side, under steam, and booming once in a while as they went. I
What strained touches rhetoric can lend,
better in the one country than in the other, and thus by a process of
Thou truly fair, wert truly sympathized,
“natural selection,” as will hereafter be more fully explained, two
crossed over to that side and watched them. When they got abreast the
sub-breeds might be formed. This, perhaps, partly explains what has
In true plain words, by thy true-telling friend.
head of the island they quit shooting and dropped over to the Missouri
shore and went home to the town.
And their gross painting might be better used,
been remarked by some authors, namely, that the varieties kept by
savages have more of the character of species than the varieties kept
Where cheeks need blood, in thee it is abused.
I knowed I was all right now. Nobody else would come a-hunting after
me. I got my traps out of the canoe and made me a nice camp in the
I never saw that you did painting need,
On the view here given of the all-important part which selection by man
thick woods. I made a kind of a tent out of my blankets to put my
has played, it becomes at once obvious, how it is that our domestic
And therefore to your fair no painting set,
I found (or thought I found) you did exceed,
races show adaptation in their structure or in their habits to man’s
things under so the rain couldn’t get at them. I catched a catfish and
wants or fancies. We can, I think, further understand the frequently
That barren tender of a poet’s debt:
haggled him open with my saw, and towards sundown I started my camp
And therefore have I slept in your report,
abnormal character of our domestic races, and likewise their
fire and had supper. Then I set out a line to catch some fish for
That you yourself being extant well might show,
differences being so great in external characters and relatively so
When it was dark I set by my camp fire smoking, and feeling pretty well
satisfied; but by-and-by it got sort of lonesome, and so I went and set
slight in internal parts or organs. Man can hardly select, or only with
How far a modern quill doth come too short,
on the bank and listened to the current swashing along, and counted the
Speaking of worth, what worth in you doth grow.
much difficulty, any deviation of structure excepting such as is
stars and drift logs and rafts that come down, and then went to bed;
externally visible; and indeed he rarely cares for what is internal. He
This silence for my sin you did impute,
there ain’t no better way to put in time when you are lonesome; you
Which shall be most my glory being dumb,
can never act by selection, excepting on variations
For I impair not beauty being mute,
can’t stay so, you soon get over it.
which are first given to him in some slight degree by nature. No man
And so for three days and nights. No difference—just the same thing.
When others would give life, and bring a tomb.
would ever try to make a fantail, till he saw a pigeon with a tail
But the next day I went exploring around down through the island. I was
There lives more life in one of your fair eyes,
developed in some slight degree in an unusual manner, or a pouter till
Than both your poets can in praise devise.
he saw a pigeon with a crop of somewhat unusual size; and the more
boss of it; it all belonged to me, so to say, and I wanted to know all
Who is it that says most, which can say more,
abnormal or unusual any character was when it first appeared, the more
about it; but mainly I wanted to put in the time. I found plenty
strawberries, ripe and prime; and green summer grapes, and green
likely it would be to catch his attention. But to use such an
Than this rich praise: that you alone are you,
In whose confine immured is the store,
razberries; and the green blackberries was just beginning to show. They
expression as trying to make a fantail, is, I have no doubt, in most
Which should example where your equal grew.
would all come handy by-and-by, I judged.
cases, utterly incorrect. The man who first selected a pigeon with a
Lean penury within that pen doth dwell,
Well, I went fooling along in the deep woods till I judged I warn’t far
slightly larger tail, never dreamed what the descendants of that pigeon
would become through long-continued, partly unconscious and partly
from the foot of the island. I had my gun along, but I hadn’t shot
That to his subject lends not some small glory,
methodical selection. Perhaps the parent bird of all fantails had only
But he that writes of you, if he can tell,
nothing; it was for protection; thought I would kill some game nigh
That you are you, so dignifies his story.
fourteen tail-feathers somewhat expanded, like the present Java
home. About this time I mighty near stepped on a good-sized snake, and
it went sliding off through the grass and flowers, and I after it,
Let him but copy what in you is writ,
fantail, or like individuals of other and distinct breeds, in which as
many as seventeen tail-feathers have been counted. Perhaps the first
Not making worse what nature made so clear,
trying to get a shot at it. I clipped along, and all of a sudden I
And such a counterpart shall fame his wit,
pouter-pigeon did not inflate its crop much more than the turbit now
bounded right on to the ashes of a camp fire that was still smoking.
does the upper part of its oesophagus,—a habit which is disregarded by
My heart jumped up amongst my lungs. I never waited for to look
Making his style admired every where.
You to your beauteous blessings add a curse,
further, but uncocked my gun and went sneaking back on my tiptoes as
all fanciers, as it is not one of the points of the breed.
Nor let it be thought that some great deviation of structure would be
fast as ever I could. Every now and then I stopped a second amongst the
Being fond on praise, which makes your praises worse.
necessary to catch the fancier’s eye: he perceives extremely small
My tongue-tied muse in manners holds her still,
thick leaves and listened, but my breath come so hard I couldn’t hear
nothing else. I slunk along another piece further, then listened again;
differences, and it is in human nature to value any novelty, however
While comments of your praise richly compiled,
and so on, and so on. If I see a stump, I took it for a man; if I trod
slight, in one’s own possession. Nor must the value which would
Reserve their character with golden quill,
And precious phrase by all the Muses filed.
formerly be set on any slight differences in the individuals of the
on a stick and broke it, it made me feel like a person had cut one of
my breaths in two and I only got half, and the short half, too.
I think good thoughts, whilst other write good words,
same species, be judged of by the value which would now be set on them,
after several breeds have once fairly been established. Many slight
And like unlettered clerk still cry Amen,
When I got to camp I warn’t feeling very brash, there warn’t much sand
in my craw; but I says, this ain’t no time to be fooling around. So I
To every hymn that able spirit affords,
differences might, and indeed do now, arise amongst pigeons, which are
In polished form of well refined pen.
rejected as faults or deviations from the standard of perfection of
got all my traps into my canoe again so as to have them out of sight,
each breed. The common goose has not given rise to any marked
and I put out the fire and scattered the ashes around to look like an
Hearing you praised, I say ’tis so, ’tis true,
And to the most of praise add something more,
old last year’s camp, and then clumb a tree.
varieties; hence the Thoulouse and the common breed, which differ only
most fleeting of characters, have lately been exhibited as distinct at
But that is in my thought, whose love to you
I reckon I was up in the tree two hours; but I didn’t see nothing, I
I think these views further explain what has sometimes been
(Though words come hindmost) holds his rank before,
didn’t hear nothing—I only _thought_ I heard and seen as much as a
thousand things. Well, I couldn’t stay up there forever; so at last I
Then others, for the breath of words respect,
noticed—namely that we know nothing about the origin or history of any
of our domestic breeds. But, in fact, a breed, like a dialect of a
Me for my dumb thoughts, speaking in effect.
got down, but I kept in the thick woods and on the lookout all the
Was it the proud full sail of his great verse,
language, can hardly be said to have had a definite origin. A man
time. All I could get to eat was berries and what was left over from
By the time it was night I was pretty hungry. So when it was good and
preserves and breeds from an individual with some slight deviation of
Bound for the prize of (all too precious) you,
dark I slid out from shore before moonrise and paddled over to the
structure, or takes more care than usual in matching his best animals
That did my ripe thoughts in my brain inhearse,
and thus improves them, and the improved individuals slowly spread in
Illinois bank—about a quarter of a mile. I went out in the woods and
Making their tomb the womb wherein they grew?
Was it his spirit, by spirits taught to write,
cooked a supper, and I had about made up my mind I would stay there all
the immediate neighbourhood. But as yet they will hardly have a
night when I hear a _plunkety-plunk, plunkety-plunk_, and says to
Above a mortal pitch, that struck me dead?
distinct name, and from being only slightly valued, their history will
No, neither he, nor his compeers by night
be disregarded. When further improved by the same slow and gradual
myself, horses coming; and next I hear people’s voices. I got
process, they will spread more widely, and will get recognised as
everything into the canoe as quick as I could, and then went creeping
Giving him aid, my verse astonished.
something distinct and valuable, and will then probably first receive a
He nor that affable familiar ghost
through the woods to see what I could find out. I hadn’t got far when I
provincial name. In semi-civilised countries, with little free
“We better camp here if we can find a good place; the horses is about
Which nightly gulls him with intelligence,
As victors of my silence cannot boast,
I didn’t wait, but shoved out and paddled away easy. I tied up in the
communication, the spreading and knowledge of any new sub-breed will be
a slow process. As soon as the points of value of the new sub-breed are
I was not sick of any fear from thence.
old place, and reckoned I would sleep in the canoe.
once fully acknowledged, the principle, as I have called it, of
I didn’t sleep much. I couldn’t, somehow, for thinking. And every time
But when your countenance filled up his line,
I waked up I thought somebody had me by the neck. So the sleep didn’t
unconscious selection will always tend,—perhaps more at one period than
Then lacked I matter, that enfeebled mine.
do me no good. By-and-by I says to myself, I can’t live this way; I’m
at another, as the breed rises or falls in fashion,—perhaps more in one
Farewell! thou art too dear for my possessing,
And like enough thou know’st thy estimate,
district than in another, according to the state of civilisation of the
a-going to find out who it is that’s here on the island with me; I’ll
The charter of thy worth gives thee releasing:
find it out or bust. Well, I felt better right off.
inhabitants—slowly to add to the characteristic features of the breed,
whatever they may be. But the chance will be infinitely small of any
My bonds in thee are all determinate.
So I took my paddle and slid out from shore just a step or two, and
then let the canoe drop along down amongst the shadows. The moon was
record having been preserved of such slow, varying, and insensible
For how do I hold thee but by thy granting,
shining, and outside of the shadows it made it most as light as day. I
And for that riches where is my deserving?
I must now say a few words on the circumstances, favourable, or the
poked along well on to an hour, everything still as rocks and sound
reverse, to man’s power of selection. A high degree of variability is
The cause of this fair gift in me is wanting,
asleep. Well, by this time I was most down to the foot of the island. A
obviously favourable, as freely giving the materials for selection to
And so my patent back again is swerving.
Thyself thou gav’st, thy own worth then not knowing,
little ripply, cool breeze begun to blow, and that was as good as
work on; not that mere individual differences are not amply
sufficient, with extreme care, to allow of the accumulation of a large
saying the night was about done. I give her a turn with the paddle and
Or me to whom thou gav’st it, else mistaking,
brung her nose to shore; then I got my gun and slipped out and into the
amount of modification in almost any desired direction. But as
So thy great gift upon misprision growing,
edge of the woods. I sat down there on a log, and looked out through
variations manifestly useful or pleasing to man appear only
Comes home again, on better judgement making.
the leaves. I see the moon go off watch, and the darkness begin to
Thus have I had thee as a dream doth flatter,
occasionally, the chance of their appearance will be much increased by
blanket the river. But in a little while I see a pale streak over the
a large number of individuals being kept; and hence this comes to be of
In sleep a king, but waking no such matter.
When thou shalt be disposed to set me light,
the highest importance to success. On this principle Marshall has
treetops, and knowed the day was coming. So I took my gun and slipped
remarked, with respect to the sheep of parts of Yorkshire, that “as
And place my merit in the eye of scorn,
off towards where I had run across that camp fire, stopping every
they generally belong to poor people, and are mostly _in small lots_,
Upon thy side, against my self I’ll fight,
minute or two to listen. But I hadn’t no luck somehow; I couldn’t seem
And prove thee virtuous, though thou art forsworn:
they never can be improved.” On the other hand, nurserymen, from
to find the place. But by-and-by, sure enough, I catched a glimpse of
fire away through the trees. I went for it, cautious and slow.
raising large stocks of the same plants, are generally far more
With mine own weakness being best acquainted,
successful than amateurs in getting new and valuable varieties. The
By-and-by I was close enough to have a look, and there laid a man on
Upon thy part I can set down a story
Of faults concealed, wherein I am attainted:
keeping of a large number of individuals of a species in any country
the ground. It most give me the fan-tods. He had a blanket around his
That thou in losing me, shalt win much glory:
head, and his head was nearly in the fire. I set there behind a clump
requires that the species should be placed under favourable conditions
of life, so as to breed freely in that country. When the individuals of
And I by this will be a gainer too,
of bushes, in about six foot of him, and kept my eyes on him steady. It
For bending all my loving thoughts on thee,
was getting gray daylight now. Pretty soon he gapped and stretched
any species are scanty, all the individuals, whatever their quality may
The injuries that to my self I do,
be, will generally be allowed to breed, and this will effectually
himself and hove off the blanket, and it was Miss Watson’s Jim! I bet I
“Hello, Jim!” and skipped out.
Doing thee vantage, double-vantage me.
prevent selection. But probably the most important point of all, is,
that the animal or plant should be so highly useful to man, or so much
He bounced up and stared at me wild. Then he drops down on his knees,
Such is my love, to thee I so belong,
That for thy right, my self will bear all wrong.
and puts his hands together and says:
valued by him, that the closest attention should be paid to even the
slightest deviation in the qualities or structure of each individual.
“Doan’ hurt me—don’t! I hain’t ever done no harm to a ghos’. I alwuz
Say that thou didst forsake me for some fault,
And I will comment upon that offence,
Unless such attention be paid nothing can be effected. I have seen it
liked dead people, en done all I could for ’em. You go en git in de
Speak of my lameness, and I straight will halt:
gravely remarked, that it was most fortunate that the strawberry began
river agin, whah you b’longs, en doan’ do nuffn to Ole Jim, ’at ’uz
to vary just when gardeners began to attend closely to this plant. No
Against thy reasons making no defence.
Well, I warn’t long making him understand I warn’t dead. I was ever so
doubt the strawberry had always varied since it was cultivated, but the
glad to see Jim. I warn’t lonesome now. I told him I warn’t afraid of
Thou canst not (love) disgrace me half so ill,
slight varieties had been neglected. As soon, however, as gardeners
_him_ telling the people where I was. I talked along, but he only set
To set a form upon desired change,
there and looked at me; never said nothing. Then I says:
picked out individual plants with slightly larger, earlier, or better
As I’ll my self disgrace, knowing thy will,
I will acquaintance strangle and look strange:
“It’s good daylight. Le’s get breakfast. Make up your camp fire good.”
fruit, and raised seedlings from them, and again picked out the best
“What’s de use er makin’ up de camp fire to cook strawbries en sich
seedlings and bred from them, then, there appeared (aided by some
Be absent from thy walks and in my tongue,
truck? But you got a gun, hain’t you? Den we kin git sumfn better den
Thy sweet beloved name no more shall dwell,
crossing with distinct species) those many admirable varieties of the
strawberry which have been raised during the last thirty or forty
Lest I, too much profane, should do it wrong,
“Strawberries and such truck,” I says. “Is that what you live on?”
And haply of our old acquaintance tell.
In the case of animals with separate sexes, facility in preventing
“I couldn’ git nuffn else,” he says.
“Why, how long you been on the island, Jim?”
For thee, against my self I’ll vow debate,
crosses is an important element of success in the formation of new
races,—at least, in a country which is already stocked with other
“I come heah de night arter you’s killed.”
For I must ne’er love him whom thou dost hate.
races. In this respect enclosure of the land plays a part. Wandering
“And ain’t you had nothing but that kind of rubbage to eat?”
Then hate me when thou wilt, if ever, now,
“Well, you must be most starved, ain’t you?”
Now while the world is bent my deeds to cross,
savages or the inhabitants of open plains rarely possess more than one
“I reck’n I could eat a hoss. I think I could. How long you ben on de
breed of the same species. Pigeons can be mated for life, and this is a
join with the spite of fortune, make me bow,
great convenience to the fancier, for thus many races may be kept true,
“Since the night I got killed.”
And do not drop in for an after-loss:
though mingled in the same aviary; and this circumstance must have
Ah do not, when my heart hath ’scaped this sorrow,
“No! W’y, what has you lived on? But you got a gun. Oh, yes, you got a
largely favoured the improvement and formation of new breeds. Pigeons,
Come in the rearward of a conquered woe,
gun. Dat’s good. Now you kill sumfn en I’ll make up de fire.”
So we went over to where the canoe was, and while he built a fire in a
Give not a windy night a rainy morrow,
I may add, can be propagated in great numbers and at a very quick rate,
To linger out a purposed overthrow.
grassy open place amongst the trees, I fetched meal and bacon and
and inferior birds may be freely rejected, as when killed they serve
coffee, and coffee-pot and frying-pan, and sugar and tin cups, and the
If thou wilt leave me, do not leave me last,
for food. On the other hand, cats, from their nocturnal rambling
habits, cannot be matched, and, although so much valued by women and
When other petty griefs have done their spite,
nigger was set back considerable, because he reckoned it was all done
But in the onset come, so shall I taste
with witchcraft. I catched a good big catfish, too, and Jim cleaned him
children, we hardly ever see a distinct breed kept up; such breeds as
we do sometimes see are almost always imported from some other country,
At first the very worst of fortune’s might.
with his knife, and fried him.
And other strains of woe, which now seem woe,
When breakfast was ready we lolled on the grass and eat it smoking hot.
often from islands. Although I do not doubt that some domestic animals
vary less than others, yet the rarity or absence of distinct breeds of
Jim laid it in with all his might, for he was most about starved. Then
Compared with loss of thee, will not seem so.
Some glory in their birth, some in their skill,
when we had got pretty well stuffed, we laid off and lazied. By-and-by
the cat, the donkey, peacock, goose, etc., may be attributed in main
“But looky here, Huck, who wuz it dat ’uz killed in dat shanty ef it
part to selection not having been brought into play: in cats, from the
Some in their wealth, some in their body’s force,
Some in their garments though new-fangled ill:
difficulty in pairing them; in donkeys, from only a few being kept by
Then I told him the whole thing, and he said it was smart. He said Tom
Sawyer couldn’t get up no better plan than what I had. Then I says:
poor people, and little attention paid to their breeding; in peacocks,
Some in their hawks and hounds, some in their horse.
“How do you come to be here, Jim, and how’d you get here?”
from not being very easily reared and a large stock not kept; in geese,
And every humour hath his adjunct pleasure,
from being valuable only for two purposes, food and feathers, and more
Wherein it finds a joy above the rest,
He looked pretty uneasy, and didn’t say nothing for a minute. Then he
But these particulars are not my measure,
especially from no pleasure having been felt in the display of distinct
“Well, dey’s reasons. But you wouldn’ tell on me ef I uz to tell you,
To sum up on the origin of our Domestic Races of animals and plants. I
All these I better in one general best.
“Well, I b’lieve you, Huck. I—I _run off_.”
“But mind, you said you wouldn’ tell—you know you said you wouldn’
Thy love is better than high birth to me,
believe that the conditions of life, from their action on the
“Well, I did. I said I wouldn’t, and I’ll stick to it. Honest _injun_,
reproductive system, are so far of the highest importance as causing
Richer than wealth, prouder than garments’ costs,
I will. People would call me a low-down Abolitionist and despise me for
variability. I do not believe that variability is an inherent and
Of more delight than hawks and horses be:
And having thee, of all men’s pride I boast.
necessary contingency, under all circumstances, with all organic
keeping mum—but that don’t make no difference. I ain’t a-going to tell,
and I ain’t a-going back there, anyways. So, now, le’s know all about
beings, as some authors have thought. The effects of variability are
Wretched in this alone, that thou mayst take,
modified by various degrees of inheritance and of reversion.
“Well, you see, it ’uz dis way. Ole missus—dat’s Miss Watson—she pecks
All this away, and me most wretched make.
Variability is governed by many unknown laws, more especially by that
But do thy worst to steal thyself away,
on me all de time, en treats me pooty rough, but she awluz said she
wouldn’ sell me down to Orleans. But I noticed dey wuz a nigger trader
of correlation of growth. Something may be attributed to the direct
For term of life thou art assured mine,
roun’ de place considable lately, en I begin to git oneasy. Well, one
action of the conditions of life. Something must be attributed to use
And life no longer than thy love will stay,
and disuse. The final result is thus rendered infinitely complex. In
night I creeps to de do’ pooty late, en de do’ warn’t quite shet, en I
For it depends upon that love of thine.
Then need I not to fear the worst of wrongs,
hear old missus tell de widder she gwyne to sell me down to Orleans,
some cases, I do not doubt that the intercrossing of species,
aboriginally distinct, has played an important part in the origin of
When in the least of them my life hath end,
but she didn’ want to, but she could git eight hund’d dollars for me,
our domestic productions. When in any country several domestic breeds
en it ’uz sich a big stack o’ money she couldn’ resis’. De widder she
I see, a better state to me belongs
Than that, which on thy humour doth depend.
try to git her to say she wouldn’ do it, but I never waited to hear de
have once been established, their occasional intercrossing, with the
Thou canst not vex me with inconstant mind,
res’. I lit out mighty quick, I tell you.
aid of selection, has, no doubt, largely aided in the formation of new
sub-breeds; but the importance of the crossing of varieties has, I
Since that my life on thy revolt doth lie,
“I tuck out en shin down de hill, en ’spec to steal a skift ’long de
believe, been greatly exaggerated, both in regard to animals and to
sho’ som’ers ’bove de town, but dey wuz people a-stirring yit, so I hid
O what a happy title do I find,
in de ole tumble-down cooper-shop on de bank to wait for everybody to
Happy to have thy love, happy to die!
those plants which are propagated by seed. In plants which are
go ’way. Well, I wuz dah all night. Dey wuz somebody roun’ all de time.
temporarily propagated by cuttings, buds, etc., the importance of the
But what’s so blessed-fair that fears no blot?
crossing both of distinct species and of varieties is immense; for the
’Long ’bout six in de mawnin’ skifts begin to go by, en ’bout eight er
Thou mayst be false, and yet I know it not.
So shall I live, supposing thou art true,
cultivator here quite disregards the extreme variability both of
nine every skift dat went ’long wuz talkin’ ’bout how yo’ pap come over
Like a deceived husband, so love’s face,
to de town en say you’s killed. Dese las’ skifts wuz full o’ ladies en
hybrids and mongrels, and the frequent sterility of hybrids; but the
May still seem love to me, though altered new:
genlmen a-goin’ over for to see de place. Sometimes dey’d pull up at de
cases of plants not propagated by seed are of little importance to us,
sho’ en take a res’ b’fo’ dey started acrost, so by de talk I got to
for their endurance is only temporary. Over all these causes of Change
Thy looks with me, thy heart in other place.
I am convinced that the accumulative action of Selection, whether
For there can live no hatred in thine eye,
know all ’bout de killin’. I ’uz powerful sorry you’s killed, Huck, but
applied methodically and more quickly, or unconsciously and more
Therefore in that I cannot know thy change,
“I laid dah under de shavin’s all day. I ’uz hungry, but I warn’t
In many’s looks, the false heart’s history
slowly, but more efficiently, is by far the predominant Power.
afeard; bekase I knowed ole missus en de widder wuz goin’ to start to
Is writ in moods and frowns and wrinkles strange.
Variability. Individual differences. Doubtful species. Wide ranging,
de camp-meet’n’ right arter breakfas’ en be gone all day, en dey knows
much diffused, and common species vary most. Species of the larger
I goes off wid de cattle ’bout daylight, so dey wouldn’ ’spec to see me
But heaven in thy creation did decree,
genera in any country vary more than the species of the smaller genera.
roun’ de place, en so dey wouldn’ miss me tell arter dark in de
That in thy face sweet love should ever dwell,
Many of the species of the larger genera resemble varieties in being
Whate’er thy thoughts, or thy heart’s workings be,
evenin’. De yuther servants wouldn’ miss me, kase dey’d shin out en
very closely, but unequally, related to each other, and in having
Thy looks should nothing thence, but sweetness tell.
take holiday soon as de ole folks ’uz out’n de way.
How like Eve’s apple doth thy beauty grow,
“Well, when it come dark I tuck out up de river road, en went ’bout two
Before applying the principles arrived at in the last chapter to
mile er more to whah dey warn’t no houses. I’d made up my mine ’bout
If thy sweet virtue answer not thy show.
organic beings in a state of nature, we must briefly discuss whether
these latter are subject to any variation. To treat this subject at all
They that have power to hurt, and will do none,
what I’s agwyne to do. You see, ef I kep’ on tryin’ to git away afoot,
That do not do the thing, they most do show,
de dogs ’ud track me; ef I stole a skift to cross over, dey’d miss dat
properly, a long catalogue of dry facts should be given; but these I
Who moving others, are themselves as stone,
shall reserve for my future work. Nor shall I here discuss the various
skift, you see, en dey’d know ’bout whah I’d lan’ on de yuther side, en
Unmoved, cold, and to temptation slow:
definitions which have been given of the term species. No one
whah to pick up my track. So I says, a raff is what I’s arter; it doan’
They rightly do inherit heaven’s graces,
“I see a light a-comin’ roun’ de p’int bymeby, so I wade’ in en shove’
definition has as yet satisfied all naturalists; yet every naturalist
a log ahead o’ me en swum more’n half way acrost de river, en got in
And husband nature’s riches from expense,
knows vaguely what he means when he speaks of a species. Generally the
They are the lords and owners of their faces,
term includes the unknown element of a distinct act of creation. The
’mongst de drift-wood, en kep’ my head down low, en kinder swum agin de
current tell de raff come along. Den I swum to de stern uv it en tuck
term “variety” is almost equally difficult to define; but here
Others, but stewards of their excellence:
The summer’s flower is to the summer sweet,
a-holt. It clouded up en ’uz pooty dark for a little while. So I clumb
community of descent is almost universally implied, though it can
Though to it self, it only live and die,
rarely be proved. We have also what are called monstrosities; but they
up en laid down on de planks. De men ’uz all ’way yonder in de middle,
whah de lantern wuz. De river wuz a-risin’, en dey wuz a good current;
But if that flower with base infection meet,
graduate into varieties. By a monstrosity I presume is meant some
considerable deviation of structure in one part, either injurious to or
The basest weed outbraves his dignity:
so I reck’n’d ’at by fo’ in de mawnin’ I’d be twenty-five mile down de
river, en den I’d slip in jis b’fo’ daylight en swim asho’, en take to
not useful to the species, and not generally propagated. Some authors
For sweetest things turn sourest by their deeds,
Lilies that fester, smell far worse than weeds.
“But I didn’ have no luck. When we ’uz mos’ down to de head er de
use the term “variation” in a technical sense, as implying a
islan’ a man begin to come aft wid de lantern, I see it warn’t no use
How sweet and lovely dost thou make the shame,
modification directly due to the physical conditions of life; and
“variations” in this sense are supposed not to be inherited: but who
Which like a canker in the fragrant rose,
fer to wait, so I slid overboard en struck out fer de islan’. Well, I
can say that the dwarfed condition of shells in the brackish waters of
had a notion I could lan’ mos’ anywhers, but I couldn’t—bank too bluff.
Doth spot the beauty of thy budding name!
I ’uz mos’ to de foot er de islan’ b’fo’ I found’ a good place. I went
O in what sweets dost thou thy sins enclose!
the Baltic, or dwarfed plants on Alpine summits, or the thicker fur of
an animal from far northwards, would not in some cases be inherited for
into de woods en jedged I wouldn’ fool wid raffs no mo’, long as dey
That tongue that tells the story of thy days,
(Making lascivious comments on thy sport)
move de lantern roun’ so. I had my pipe en a plug er dog-leg, en some
at least some few generations? and in this case I presume that the form
Cannot dispraise, but in a kind of praise,
Again, we have many slight differences which may be called individual
matches in my cap, en dey warn’t wet, so I ’uz all right.”
“And so you ain’t had no meat nor bread to eat all this time? Why
Naming thy name, blesses an ill report.
differences, such as are known frequently to appear in the offspring
“How you gwyne to git ’m? You can’t slip up on um en grab um; en how’s
O what a mansion have those vices got,
from the same parents, or which may be presumed to have thus arisen,
a body gwyne to hit um wid a rock? How could a body do it in de night?
from being frequently observed in the individuals of the same species
Which for their habitation chose out thee,
Where beauty’s veil doth cover every blot,
inhabiting the same confined locality. No one supposes that all the
En I warn’t gwyne to show mysef on de bank in de daytime.”
And all things turns to fair, that eyes can see!
individuals of the same species are cast in the very same mould. These
“Well, that’s so. You’ve had to keep in the woods all the time, of
individual differences are highly important for us, as they afford
Take heed (dear heart) of this large privilege,
course. Did you hear ’em shooting the cannon?”
materials for natural selection to accumulate, in the same manner as
“Oh, yes. I knowed dey was arter you. I see um go by heah—watched um
The hardest knife ill-used doth lose his edge.
Some young birds come along, flying a yard or two at a time and
man can accumulate in any given direction individual differences in his
Some say thy fault is youth, some wantonness,
lighting. Jim said it was a sign it was going to rain. He said it was a
Some say thy grace is youth and gentle sport,
domesticated productions. These individual differences generally affect
sign when young chickens flew that way, and so he reckoned it was the
what naturalists consider unimportant parts; but I could show by a long
Both grace and faults are loved of more and less:
catalogue of facts, that parts which must be called important, whether
Thou mak’st faults graces, that to thee resort:
same way when young birds done it. I was going to catch some of them,
As on the finger of a throned queen,
but Jim wouldn’t let me. He said it was death. He said his father laid
viewed under a physiological or classificatory point of view, sometimes
vary in the individuals of the same species. I am convinced that the
The basest jewel will be well esteemed:
mighty sick once, and some of them catched a bird, and his old granny
most experienced naturalist would be surprised at the number of the
So are those errors that in thee are seen,
said his father would die, and he did.
To truths translated, and for true things deemed.
And Jim said you mustn’t count the things you are going to cook for
cases of variability, even in important parts of structure, which he
How many lambs might the stern wolf betray,
dinner, because that would bring bad luck. The same if you shook the
could collect on good authority, as I have collected, during a course
If like a lamb he could his looks translate!
of years. It should be remembered that systematists are far from
table-cloth after sundown. And he said if a man owned a beehive and
How many gazers mightst thou lead away,
that man died, the bees must be told about it before sun-up next
pleased at finding variability in important characters, and that there
are not many men who will laboriously examine internal and important
If thou wouldst use the strength of all thy state!
morning, or else the bees would all weaken down and quit work and die.
But do not so, I love thee in such sort,
organs, and compare them in many specimens of the same species. I
Jim said bees wouldn’t sting idiots; but I didn’t believe that, because
should never have expected that the branching of the main nerves close
As thou being mine, mine is thy good report.
I had tried them lots of times myself, and they wouldn’t sting me.
to the great central ganglion of an insect would have been variable in
I had heard about some of these things before, but not all of them. Jim
How like a winter hath my absence been
knowed all kinds of signs. He said he knowed most everything. I said it
the same species; I should have expected that changes of this nature
From thee, the pleasure of the fleeting year!
could have been effected only by slow degrees: yet quite recently Mr.
What freezings have I felt, what dark days seen!
looked to me like all the signs was about bad luck, and so I asked him
What old December’s bareness everywhere!
Lubbock has shown a degree of variability in these main nerves in
if there warn’t any good-luck signs. He says:
“Mighty few—an’ _dey_ ain’t no use to a body. What you want to know
Coccus, which may almost be compared to the irregular branching of the
And yet this time removed was summer’s time,
stem of a tree. This philosophical naturalist, I may add, has also
The teeming autumn big with rich increase,
when good luck’s a-comin’ for? Want to keep it off?” And he said: “Ef
quite recently shown that the muscles in the larvæ of certain insects
you’s got hairy arms en a hairy breas’, it’s a sign dat you’s agwyne to
Bearing the wanton burden of the prime,
Like widowed wombs after their lords’ decease:
are very far from uniform. Authors sometimes argue in a circle when
be rich. Well, dey’s some use in a sign like dat, ’kase it’s so fur
ahead. You see, maybe you’s got to be po’ a long time fust, en so you
Yet this abundant issue seemed to me
they state that important organs never vary; for these same authors
But hope of orphans, and unfathered fruit,
practically rank that character as important (as some few naturalists
might git discourage’ en kill yo’sef ’f you didn’ know by de sign dat
“Have you got hairy arms and a hairy breast, Jim?”
have honestly confessed) which does not vary; and, under this point of
For summer and his pleasures wait on thee,
And thou away, the very birds are mute.
view, no instance of an important part varying will ever be found: but
“What’s de use to ax dat question? Don’t you see I has?”
Or if they sing, ’tis with so dull a cheer,
“No, but I ben rich wunst, and gwyne to be rich agin. Wunst I had
under any other point of view many instances assuredly can be given.
That leaves look pale, dreading the winter’s near.
foteen dollars, but I tuck to specalat’n’, en got busted out.”
There is one point connected with individual differences, which seems
“What did you speculate in, Jim?”
to me extremely perplexing: I refer to those genera which have
From you have I been absent in the spring,
When proud-pied April (dressed in all his trim)
“Why, live stock—cattle, you know. I put ten dollars in a cow. But I
sometimes been called “protean” or “polymorphic,” in which the species
ain’ gwyne to resk no mo’ money in stock. De cow up ’n’ died on my
Hath put a spirit of youth in every thing:
present an inordinate amount of variation; and hardly two naturalists
“So you lost the ten dollars.”
can agree which forms to rank as species and which as varieties. We may
That heavy Saturn laughed and leaped with him.
Yet nor the lays of birds, nor the sweet smell
instance Rubus, Rosa, and Hieracium amongst plants, several genera of
“No, I didn’t lose it all. I on’y los’ ’bout nine of it. I sole de hide
en taller for a dollar en ten cents.”
insects, and several genera of Brachiopod shells. In most polymorphic
Of different flowers in odour and in hue,
Could make me any summer’s story tell:
“You had five dollars and ten cents left. Did you speculate any more?”
genera some of the species have fixed and definite characters. Genera
which are polymorphic in one country seem to be, with some few
Or from their proud lap pluck them where they grew:
“Yes. You know that one-laigged nigger dat b’longs to old Misto
Nor did I wonder at the lily’s white,
Bradish? Well, he sot up a bank, en say anybody dat put in a dollar
exceptions, polymorphic in other countries, and likewise, judging from
Brachiopod shells, at former periods of time. These facts seem to be
Nor praise the deep vermilion in the rose,
would git fo’ dollars mo’ at de en’ er de year. Well, all de niggers
They were but sweet, but figures of delight:
went in, but dey didn’t have much. I wuz de on’y one dat had much. So I
very perplexing, for they seem to show that this kind of variability is
stuck out for mo’ dan fo’ dollars, en I said ’f I didn’ git it I’d
Drawn after you, you pattern of all those.
independent of the conditions of life. I am inclined to suspect that we
see in these polymorphic genera variations in points of structure which
start a bank mysef. Well, o’ course dat nigger want’ to keep me out er
Yet seemed it winter still, and you away,
de business, bekase he says dey warn’t business ’nough for two banks,
As with your shadow I with these did play.
are of no service or disservice to the species, and which consequently
The forward violet thus did I chide,
so he say I could put in my five dollars en he pay me thirty-five at de
have not been seized on and rendered definite by natural selection, as
“So I done it. Den I reck’n’d I’d inves’ de thirty-five dollars right
Those forms which possess in some considerable degree the character of
Sweet thief, whence didst thou steal thy sweet that smells,
If not from my love’s breath? The purple pride
species, but which are so closely similar to some other forms, or are
off en keep things a-movin’. Dey wuz a nigger name’ Bob, dat had
so closely linked to them by intermediate gradations, that naturalists
ketched a wood-flat, en his marster didn’ know it; en I bought it off’n
Which on thy soft cheek for complexion dwells,
In my love’s veins thou hast too grossly dyed.
him en told him to take de thirty-five dollars when de en’ er de year
do not like to rank them as distinct species, are in several respects
the most important for us. We have every reason to believe that many of
The lily I condemned for thy hand,
come; but somebody stole de wood-flat dat night, en nex day de
And buds of marjoram had stol’n thy hair,
these doubtful and closely-allied forms have permanently retained their
one-laigged nigger say de bank’s busted. So dey didn’ none uv us git no
characters in their own country for a long time; for as long, as far as
“What did you do with the ten cents, Jim?”
The roses fearfully on thorns did stand,
we know, as have good and true species. Practically, when a naturalist
One blushing shame, another white despair:
“Well, I ’uz gwyne to spen’ it, but I had a dream, en de dream tole me
can unite two forms together by others having intermediate characters,
to give it to a nigger name’ Balum—Balum’s Ass dey call him for short;
A third nor red, nor white, had stol’n of both,
he treats the one as a variety of the other, ranking the most common,
he’s one er dem chuckleheads, you know. But he’s lucky, dey say, en I
And to his robbery had annexed thy breath,
but sometimes the one first described, as the species, and the other as
But for his theft in pride of all his growth
see I warn’t lucky. De dream say let Balum inves’ de ten cents en he’d
A vengeful canker eat him up to death.
make a raise for me. Well, Balum he tuck de money, en when he wuz in
the variety. But cases of great difficulty, which I will not here
enumerate, sometimes occur in deciding whether or not to rank one form
church he hear de preacher say dat whoever give to de po’ len’ to de
More flowers I noted, yet I none could see,
Lord, en boun’ to git his money back a hund’d times. So Balum he tuck
as a variety of another, even when they are closely connected by
But sweet, or colour it had stol’n from thee.
intermediate links; nor will the commonly-assumed hybrid nature of the
en give de ten cents to de po’, en laid low to see what wuz gwyne to
Where art thou Muse that thou forget’st so long,
intermediate links always remove the difficulty. In very many cases,
To speak of that which gives thee all thy might?
“Well, what did come of it, Jim?”
however, one form is ranked as a variety of another, not because the
Spend’st thou thy fury on some worthless song,
“Nuffn never come of it. I couldn’ manage to k’leck dat money no way;
intermediate links have actually been found, but because analogy leads
en Balum he couldn’. I ain’ gwyne to len’ no mo’ money ’dout I see de
Darkening thy power to lend base subjects light?
security. Boun’ to git yo’ money back a hund’d times, de preacher says!
the observer to suppose either that they do now somewhere exist, or may
Return forgetful Muse, and straight redeem,
Ef I could git de ten _cents_ back, I’d call it squah, en be glad er de
formerly have existed; and here a wide door for the entry of doubt and
In gentle numbers time so idly spent,
Sing to the ear that doth thy lays esteem,
Hence, in determining whether a form should be ranked as a species or a
“Well, it’s all right anyway, Jim, long as you’re going to be rich
variety, the opinion of naturalists having sound judgment and wide
“Yes; en I’s rich now, come to look at it. I owns mysef, en I’s wuth
And gives thy pen both skill and argument.
Rise resty Muse, my love’s sweet face survey,
eight hund’d dollars. I wisht I had de money, I wouldn’ want no mo’.”
experience seems the only guide to follow. We must, however, in many
If time have any wrinkle graven there,
cases, decide by a majority of naturalists, for few well-marked and
I wanted to go and look at a place right about the middle of the island
that I’d found when I was exploring; so we started and soon got to it,
And make time’s spoils despised everywhere.
well-known varieties can be named which have not been ranked as species
by at least some competent judges.
because the island was only three miles long and a quarter of a mile
Give my love fame faster than Time wastes life,
This place was a tolerable long, steep hill or ridge about forty foot
So thou prevent’st his scythe, and crooked knife.
That varieties of this doubtful nature are far from uncommon cannot be
O truant Muse what shall be thy amends,
high. We had a rough time getting to the top, the sides was so steep
disputed. Compare the several floras of Great Britain, of France or of
For thy neglect of truth in beauty dyed?
and the bushes so thick. We tramped and clumb around all over it, and
the United States, drawn up by different botanists, and see what a
surprising number of forms have been ranked by one botanist as good
Both truth and beauty on my love depends:
by-and-by found a good big cavern in the rock, most up to the top on
the side towards Illinois. The cavern was as big as two or three rooms
So dost thou too, and therein dignified:
species, and by another as mere varieties. Mr. H. C. Watson, to whom I
Make answer Muse, wilt thou not haply say,
lie under deep obligation for assistance of all kinds, has marked for
bunched together, and Jim could stand up straight in it. It was cool in
me 182 British plants, which are generally considered as varieties, but
there. Jim was for putting our traps in there right away, but I said we
’Truth needs no colour with his colour fixed,
didn’t want to be climbing up and down there all the time.
which have all been ranked by botanists as species; and in making this
Beauty no pencil, beauty’s truth to lay:
But best is best, if never intermixed’?
list he has omitted many trifling varieties, but which nevertheless
Jim said if we had the canoe hid in a good place, and had all the traps
Because he needs no praise, wilt thou be dumb?
in the cavern, we could rush there if anybody was to come to the
have been ranked by some botanists as species, and he has entirely
island, and they would never find us without dogs. And, besides, he
omitted several highly polymorphic genera. Under genera, including the
Excuse not silence so, for’t lies in thee,
To make him much outlive a gilded tomb:
most polymorphic forms, Mr. Babington gives 251 species, whereas Mr.
said them little birds had said it was going to rain, and did I want
And to be praised of ages yet to be.
Bentham gives only 112,—a difference of 139 doubtful forms! Amongst
So we went back and got the canoe, and paddled up abreast the cavern,
Then do thy office Muse, I teach thee how,
animals which unite for each birth, and which are highly locomotive,
and lugged all the traps up there. Then we hunted up a place close by
To make him seem long hence, as he shows now.
doubtful forms, ranked by one zoologist as a species and by another as
to hide the canoe in, amongst the thick willows. We took some fish off
My love is strengthened though more weak in seeming,
a variety, can rarely be found within the same country, but are common
of the lines and set them again, and begun to get ready for dinner.
in separated areas. How many of those birds and insects in North
The door of the cavern was big enough to roll a hogshead in, and on one
I love not less, though less the show appear,
side of the door the floor stuck out a little bit, and was flat and a
That love is merchandized, whose rich esteeming,
America and Europe, which differ very slightly from each other, have
The owner’s tongue doth publish every where.
good place to build a fire on. So we built it there and cooked dinner.
been ranked by one eminent naturalist as undoubted species, and by
Our love was new, and then but in the spring,
We spread the blankets inside for a carpet, and eat our dinner in
another as varieties, or, as they are often called, as geographical
there. We put all the other things handy at the back of the cavern.
races! Many years ago, when comparing, and seeing others compare, the
When I was wont to greet it with my lays,
As Philomel in summer’s front doth sing,
Pretty soon it darkened up, and begun to thunder and lighten; so the
birds from the separate islands of the Galapagos Archipelago, both one
And stops her pipe in growth of riper days:
birds was right about it. Directly it begun to rain, and it rained like
with another, and with those from the American mainland, I was much
Not that the summer is less pleasant now
all fury, too, and I never see the wind blow so. It was one of these
struck how entirely vague and arbitrary is the distinction between
regular summer storms. It would get so dark that it looked all
Than when her mournful hymns did hush the night,
species and varieties. On the islets of the little Madeira group there
But that wild music burthens every bough,
blue-black outside, and lovely; and the rain would thrash along by so
are many insects which are characterized as varieties in Mr.
thick that the trees off a little ways looked dim and spider-webby; and
Wollaston’s admirable work, but which it cannot
And sweets grown common lose their dear delight.
Therefore like her, I sometime hold my tongue:
here would come a blast of wind that would bend the trees down and turn
be doubted would be ranked as distinct species by many entomologists.
Because I would not dull you with my song.
Even Ireland has a few animals, now generally regarded as varieties,
up the pale underside of the leaves; and then a perfect ripper of a
but which have been ranked as species by some zoologists. Several most
gust would follow along and set the branches to tossing their arms as
Alack what poverty my muse brings forth,
experienced ornithologists consider our British red grouse as only a
if they was just wild; and next, when it was just about the bluest and
That having such a scope to show her pride,
The argument all bare is of more worth
blackest—_fst!_ it was as bright as glory, and you’d have a little
strongly-marked race of a Norwegian species, whereas the greater number
Than when it hath my added praise beside.
glimpse of tree-tops a-plunging about away off yonder in the storm,
rank it as an undoubted species peculiar to Great Britain. A wide
distance between the homes of two doubtful forms leads many naturalists
hundreds of yards further than you could see before; dark as sin again
O blame me not if I no more can write!
Look in your glass and there appears a face,
in a second, and now you’d hear the thunder let go with an awful crash,
to rank both as distinct species; but what distance, it has been well
asked, will suffice? if that between America and Europe is ample, will
That over-goes my blunt invention quite,
and then go rumbling, grumbling, tumbling, down the sky towards the
that between the Continent and the Azores, or Madeira, or the Canaries,
Dulling my lines, and doing me disgrace.
under side of the world, like rolling empty barrels down stairs—where
or Ireland, be sufficient? It must be admitted that many forms,
Were it not sinful then striving to mend,
it’s long stairs and they bounce a good deal, you know.
“Jim, this is nice,” I says. “I wouldn’t want to be nowhere else but
To mar the subject that before was well?
considered by highly-competent judges as varieties, have so perfectly
For to no other pass my verses tend,
here. Pass me along another hunk of fish and some hot corn-bread.”
the character of species that they are ranked by other highly-competent
“Well, you wouldn’t a ben here ’f it hadn’t a ben for Jim. You’d a ben
Than of your graces and your gifts to tell.
judges as good and true species. But to discuss whether they are
rightly called species or varieties, before any definition of these
And more, much more than in my verse can sit,
down dah in de woods widout any dinner, en gittn’ mos’ drownded, too;
dat you would, honey. Chickens knows when it’s gwyne to rain, en so do
terms has been generally accepted, is vainly to beat the air.
Your own glass shows you, when you look in it.
To me fair friend you never can be old,
The river went on raising and raising for ten or twelve days, till at
Many of the cases of strongly-marked varieties or doubtful species well
deserve consideration; for several interesting lines of argument, from
For as you were when first your eye I eyed,
last it was over the banks. The water was three or four foot deep on
Such seems your beauty still: three winters cold,
geographical distribution, analogical variation, hybridism, etc., have
the island in the low places and on the Illinois bottom. On that side
it was a good many miles wide, but on the Missouri side it was the same
Have from the forests shook three summers’ pride,
been brought to bear on the attempt to determine their rank. I will
old distance across—a half a mile—because the Missouri shore was just a
Three beauteous springs to yellow autumn turned,
here give only a single instance,—the well-known one of the primrose
and cowslip, or Primula veris and elatior. These plants differ
In process of the seasons have I seen,
Daytimes we paddled all over the island in the canoe, It was mighty
Three April perfumes in three hot Junes burned,
considerably in appearance; they have a different flavour and emit a
cool and shady in the deep woods, even if the sun was blazing outside.
We went winding in and out amongst the trees, and sometimes the vines
Since first I saw you fresh which yet are green.
different odour; they flower at slightly different periods; they grow
Ah yet doth beauty like a dial hand,
in somewhat different stations; they ascend mountains to different
hung so thick we had to back away and go some other way. Well, on every
old broken-down tree you could see rabbits and snakes and such things;
heights; they have different geographical ranges; and lastly, according
Steal from his figure, and no pace perceived,
So your sweet hue, which methinks still doth stand
to very numerous experiments made during several years by
and when the island had been overflowed a day or two they got so tame,
that most careful observer Gärtner, they can be crossed only with much
on account of being hungry, that you could paddle right up and put your
Hath motion, and mine eye may be deceived.
hand on them if you wanted to; but not the snakes and turtles—they
For fear of which, hear this thou age unbred,
difficulty. We could hardly wish for better evidence of the two forms
would slide off in the water. The ridge our cavern was in was full of
Ere you were born was beauty’s summer dead.
being specifically distinct. On the other hand, they are united by many
intermediate links, and it is very doubtful whether these links are
them. We could a had pets enough if we’d wanted them.
Let not my love be called idolatry,
hybrids; and there is, as it seems to me, an overwhelming amount of
Nor my beloved as an idol show,
One night we catched a little section of a lumber raft—nice pine
Since all alike my songs and praises be
experimental evidence, showing that they descend from common parents,
planks. It was twelve foot wide and about fifteen or sixteen foot long,
and the top stood above water six or seven inches—a solid, level floor.
and consequently must be ranked as varieties.
To one, of one, still such, and ever so.
Close investigation, in most cases, will bring naturalists to an
Kind is my love to-day, to-morrow kind,
We could see saw-logs go by in the daylight sometimes, but we let them
Still constant in a wondrous excellence,
agreement how to rank doubtful forms. Yet it must be confessed, that it
go; we didn’t show ourselves in daylight.
is in the best-known countries that we find the greatest number of
Therefore my verse to constancy confined,
Another night when we was up at the head of the island, just before
daylight, here comes a frame-house down, on the west side. She was a
forms of doubtful value. I have been struck with the fact, that if any
One thing expressing, leaves out difference.
animal or plant in a state of nature be highly useful to man, or from
Fair, kind, and true, is all my argument,
two-story, and tilted over considerable. We paddled out and got
Fair, kind, and true, varying to other words,
aboard—clumb in at an upstairs window. But it was too dark to see yet,
any cause closely attract his attention, varieties of it will almost
so we made the canoe fast and set in her to wait for daylight.
And in this change is my invention spent,
universally be found recorded. These varieties, moreover, will be often
ranked by some authors as species. Look at the common oak, how closely
The light begun to come before we got to the foot of the island. Then
Three themes in one, which wondrous scope affords.
it has been studied; yet a German author makes more than a dozen
Fair, kind, and true, have often lived alone.
we looked in at the window. We could make out a bed, and a table, and
two old chairs, and lots of things around about on the floor, and there
Which three till now, never kept seat in one.
species out of forms, which are very generally considered as varieties;
and in this country the highest botanical authorities and practical men
When in the chronicle of wasted time,
was clothes hanging against the wall. There was something laying on the
I see descriptions of the fairest wights,
can be quoted to show that the sessile and pedunculated oaks are either
floor in the far corner that looked like a man. So Jim says:
good and distinct species or mere varieties.
And beauty making beautiful old rhyme,
But it didn’t budge. So I hollered again, and then Jim says:
When a young naturalist commences the study of a group of organisms
“De man ain’t asleep—he’s dead. You hold still—I’ll go en see.”
In praise of ladies dead, and lovely knights,
quite unknown to him, he is at first much perplexed to determine what
Then in the blazon of sweet beauty’s best,
He went, and bent down and looked, and says:
“It’s a dead man. Yes, indeedy; naked, too. He’s ben shot in de back. I
Of hand, of foot, of lip, of eye, of brow,
differences to consider as specific, and what as varieties; for he
reck’n he’s ben dead two er three days. Come in, Huck, but doan’ look
knows nothing of the amount and kind of variation to which the group is
I see their antique pen would have expressed,
subject; and this shows, at least, how very generally there is some
I didn’t look at him at all. Jim throwed some old rags over him, but he
Even such a beauty as you master now.
So all their praises are but prophecies
variation. But if he confine his attention to one class within one
needn’t done it; I didn’t want to see him. There was heaps of old
country, he will soon make up his mind how to rank most of the doubtful
Of this our time, all you prefiguring,
greasy cards scattered around over the floor, and old whisky bottles,
And for they looked but with divining eyes,
general tendency will be to make many species, for he will become
and a couple of masks made out of black cloth; and all over the walls
They had not skill enough your worth to sing:
was the ignorantest kind of words and pictures made with charcoal.
impressed, just like the pigeon or poultry-fancier before alluded to,
There was two old dirty calico dresses, and a sun-bonnet, and some
For we which now behold these present days,
with the amount of difference in the forms which he is continually
Have eyes to wonder, but lack tongues to praise.
studying; and he has little general knowledge of analogical variation
women’s underclothes hanging against the wall, and some men’s clothing,
Not mine own fears, nor the prophetic soul,
in other groups and in other countries, by which to correct his first
too. We put the lot into the canoe—it might come good. There was a
Of the wide world, dreaming on things to come,
impressions. As he extends the range of his observations, he will meet
boy’s old speckled straw hat on the floor; I took that, too. And there
Can yet the lease of my true love control,
with more cases of difficulty; for he will encounter a greater number
was a bottle that had had milk in it, and it had a rag stopper for a
Supposed as forfeit to a confined doom.
of closely-allied forms. But if his observations be widely extended, he
baby to suck. We would a took the bottle, but it was broke. There was a
seedy old chest, and an old hair trunk with the hinges broke. They
will in the end generally be enabled to make up his own mind which to
The mortal moon hath her eclipse endured,
And the sad augurs mock their own presage,
call varieties and which species; but he will succeed in this at the
stood open, but there warn’t nothing left in them that was any account.
The way things was scattered about we reckoned the people left in a
Incertainties now crown themselves assured,
expense of admitting much variation,—and the truth of this admission
will often be disputed by other naturalists. When, moreover, he comes
And peace proclaims olives of endless age.
hurry, and warn’t fixed so as to carry off most of their stuff.
Now with the drops of this most balmy time,
We got an old tin lantern, and a butcher-knife without any handle, and
to study allied forms brought from countries not now continuous, in
My love looks fresh, and death to me subscribes,
which case he can hardly hope to find the intermediate links between
a bran-new Barlow knife worth two bits in any store, and a lot of
Since spite of him I’ll live in this poor rhyme,
tallow candles, and a tin candlestick, and a gourd, and a tin cup, and
his doubtful forms, he will have to trust almost entirely to analogy,
and his difficulties will rise to a climax.
While he insults o’er dull and speechless tribes.
a ratty old bedquilt off the bed, and a reticule with needles and pins
and beeswax and buttons and thread and all such truck in it, and a
Certainly no clear line of demarcation has as yet been drawn between
And thou in this shalt find thy monument,
hatchet and some nails, and a fishline as thick as my little finger
species and sub-species—that is, the forms which in the opinion of some
When tyrants’ crests and tombs of brass are spent.
with some monstrous hooks on it, and a roll of buckskin, and a leather
What’s in the brain that ink may character,
naturalists come very near to, but do not quite arrive at the rank of
Which hath not figured to thee my true spirit,
species; or, again, between sub-species and well-marked varieties, or
dog-collar, and a horseshoe, and some vials of medicine that didn’t
between lesser varieties and individual differences. These differences
have no label on them; and just as we was leaving I found a tolerable
What’s new to speak, what now to register,
blend into each other in an insensible series; and a series impresses
good curry-comb, and Jim he found a ratty old fiddle-bow, and a wooden
That may express my love, or thy dear merit?
the mind with the idea of an actual passage.
leg. The straps was broke off of it, but, barring that, it was a good
Nothing sweet boy, but yet like prayers divine,
I must each day say o’er the very same,
enough leg, though it was too long for me and not long enough for Jim,
Hence I look at individual differences, though of small interest to the
Counting no old thing old, thou mine, I thine,
systematist, as of high importance for us, as being the first step
and we couldn’t find the other one, though we hunted all around.
towards such slight varieties as are barely thought worth recording in
Even as when first I hallowed thy fair name.
And so, take it all around, we made a good haul. When we was ready to
So that eternal love in love’s fresh case,
works on natural history. And I look at varieties which are in any
shove off we was a quarter of a mile below the island, and it was
degree more distinct and permanent, as steps leading to more
Weighs not the dust and injury of age,
pretty broad day; so I made Jim lay down in the canoe and cover up with
Nor gives to necessary wrinkles place,
the quilt, because if he set up people could tell he was a nigger a
strongly marked and more permanent varieties; and at these latter, as
But makes antiquity for aye his page,
leading to sub-species, and to species. The passage from one stage of
good ways off. I paddled over to the Illinois shore, and drifted down
most a half a mile doing it. I crept up the dead water under the bank,
Finding the first conceit of love there bred,
difference to another and higher stage may be, in some cases, due
merely to the long-continued action of different physical conditions in
Where time and outward form would show it dead.
and hadn’t no accidents and didn’t see nobody. We got home all safe.
After breakfast I wanted to talk about the dead man and guess out how
two different regions; but I have not much faith in this view; and I
O never say that I was false of heart,
he come to be killed, but Jim didn’t want to. He said it would fetch
attribute the passage of a variety, from a state in which it differs
Though absence seemed my flame to qualify,
As easy might I from my self depart,
very slightly from its parent to one in which it differs more, to the
bad luck; and besides, he said, he might come and ha’nt us; he said a
action of natural selection in accumulating (as will hereafter be more
As from my soul which in thy breast doth lie:
man that warn’t buried was more likely to go a-ha’nting around than one
that was planted and comfortable. That sounded pretty reasonable, so I
That is my home of love, if I have ranged,
fully explained) differences of structure in certain definite
directions. Hence I believe a well-marked variety may be justly called
didn’t say no more; but I couldn’t keep from studying over it and
Like him that travels I return again,
an incipient species; but whether this belief be justifiable must be
Just to the time, not with the time exchanged,
wishing I knowed who shot the man, and what they done it for.
So that my self bring water for my stain,
judged of by the general weight of the several facts and views given
We rummaged the clothes we’d got, and found eight dollars in silver
sewed up in the lining of an old blanket overcoat. Jim said he reckoned
It need not be supposed that all varieties or incipient species
Never believe though in my nature reigned,
necessarily attain the rank of species. They may whilst in this
All frailties that besiege all kinds of blood,
the people in that house stole the coat, because if they’d a knowed the
money was there they wouldn’t a left it. I said I reckoned they killed
incipient state become extinct, or they may endure as varieties for
That it could so preposterously be stained,
To leave for nothing all thy sum of good:
very long periods, as has been shown to be the case by Mr. Wollaston
him, too; but Jim didn’t want to talk about that. I says:
For nothing this wide universe I call,
with the varieties of certain fossil land-shells in Madeira. If a
“Now you think it’s bad luck; but what did you say when I fetched in
variety were to flourish so as to exceed in numbers the parent species,
the snake-skin that I found on the top of the ridge day before
Save thou my rose, in it thou art my all.
Alas ’tis true, I have gone here and there,
it would then rank as the species, and the species as the variety; or
yesterday? You said it was the worst bad luck in the world to touch a
snake-skin with my hands. Well, here’s your bad luck! We’ve raked in
it might come to supplant and exterminate the parent species; or both
And made my self a motley to the view,
might co-exist, and both rank as independent species. But we shall
Gored mine own thoughts, sold cheap what is most dear,
all this truck and eight dollars besides. I wish we could have some bad
Made old offences of affections new.
hereafter have to return to this subject.
luck like this every day, Jim.”
“Never you mind, honey, never you mind. Don’t you git too peart. It’s
From these remarks it will be seen that I look at the term species, as
Most true it is, that I have looked on truth
one arbitrarily given for the sake of convenience to a set of
a-comin’. Mind I tell you, it’s a-comin’.”
Askance and strangely: but by all above,
It did come, too. It was a Tuesday that we had that talk. Well, after
These blenches gave my heart another youth,
individuals closely resembling each other, and that it does not
dinner Friday we was laying around in the grass at the upper end of the
essentially differ from the term variety, which is given to less
And worse essays proved thee my best of love.
distinct and more fluctuating forms. The term variety, again, in
ridge, and got out of tobacco. I went to the cavern to get some, and
Now all is done, have what shall have no end,
Mine appetite I never more will grind
comparison with mere individual differences, is also applied
found a rattlesnake in there. I killed him, and curled him up on the
On newer proof, to try an older friend,
foot of Jim’s blanket, ever so natural, thinking there’d be some fun
arbitrarily, and for mere convenience sake.
when Jim found him there. Well, by night I forgot all about the snake,
Guided by theoretical considerations, I thought that some interesting
A god in love, to whom I am confined.
and when Jim flung himself down on the blanket while I struck a light
results might be obtained in regard to the nature and relations of the
Then give me welcome, next my heaven the best,
species which vary most, by tabulating all the varieties in several
the snake’s mate was there, and bit him.
Even to thy pure and most most loving breast.
O for my sake do you with Fortune chide,
well-worked floras. At first this seemed a simple task; but Mr. H. C.
He jumped up yelling, and the first thing the light showed was the
The guilty goddess of my harmful deeds,
Watson, to whom I am much indebted for valuable advice and assistance
varmint curled up and ready for another spring. I laid him out in a
on this subject, soon convinced me that there were many difficulties,
second with a stick, and Jim grabbed pap’s whisky-jug and begun to pour
That did not better for my life provide,
Than public means which public manners breeds.
He was barefooted, and the snake bit him right on the heel. That all
as did subsequently Dr. Hooker, even in stronger terms. I shall reserve
comes of my being such a fool as to not remember that wherever you
for my future work the discussion of these difficulties, and the tables
Thence comes it that my name receives a brand,
And almost thence my nature is subdued
leave a dead snake its mate always comes there and curls around it. Jim
themselves of the proportional numbers of the varying species. Dr.
To what it works in, like the dyer’s hand:
told me to chop off the snake’s head and throw it away, and then skin
Hooker permits me to add, that after having carefully read my
Pity me then, and wish I were renewed,
the body and roast a piece of it. I done it, and he eat it and said it
manuscript, and examined the tables, he thinks that the following
would help cure him. He made me take off the rattles and tie them
statements are fairly well established. The whole subject, however,
Whilst like a willing patient I will drink,
around his wrist, too. He said that that would help. Then I slid out
Potions of eisel ’gainst my strong infection,
treated as it necessarily here is with much brevity, is rather
No bitterness that I will bitter think,
quiet and throwed the snakes clear away amongst the bushes; for I
perplexing, and allusions cannot be avoided to the “struggle for
Nor double penance to correct correction.
existence,” “divergence of character,” and other questions, hereafter
warn’t going to let Jim find out it was all my fault, not if I could
Alph. De Candolle and others have shown that plants which have very
Jim sucked and sucked at the jug, and now and then he got out of his
Pity me then dear friend, and I assure ye,
wide ranges generally present varieties; and this might have been
Even that your pity is enough to cure me.
head and pitched around and yelled; but every time he come to himself
Your love and pity doth th’ impression fill,
he went to sucking at the jug again. His foot swelled up pretty big,
expected, as they become exposed to diverse physical conditions, and as
they come into competition (which, as we shall hereafter see, is a far
Which vulgar scandal stamped upon my brow,
and so did his leg; but by-and-by the drunk begun to come, and so I
For what care I who calls me well or ill,
more important circumstance) with different sets of organic beings. But
judged he was all right; but I’d druther been bit with a snake than
Jim was laid up for four days and nights. Then the swelling was all
my tables further show that, in any limited country, the species which
So you o’er-green my bad, my good allow?
gone and he was around again. I made up my mind I wouldn’t ever take
You are my all the world, and I must strive,
are most common, that is abound most in individuals, and the species
a-holt of a snake-skin again with my hands, now that I see what had
To know my shames and praises from your tongue,
which are most widely diffused within their own country (and this is a
different consideration from wide range, and to a certain extent from
come of it. Jim said he reckoned I would believe him next time. And he
None else to me, nor I to none alive,
commonness), often give rise to varieties sufficiently well-marked to
That my steeled sense or changes right or wrong.
said that handling a snake-skin was such awful bad luck that maybe we
hadn’t got to the end of it yet. He said he druther see the new moon
have been recorded in botanical works. Hence it is the most
In so profound abysm I throw all care
over his left shoulder as much as a thousand times than take up a
Of others’ voices, that my adder’s sense,
flourishing, or, as they may be called, the dominant species,—those
To critic and to flatterer stopped are:
which range widely over the world, are the most diffused in their own
snake-skin in his hand. Well, I was getting to feel that way myself,
Mark how with my neglect I do dispense.
country, and are the most numerous in individuals,—which oftenest
though I’ve always reckoned that looking at the new moon over your left
produce well-marked varieties, or, as I consider them, incipient
You are so strongly in my purpose bred,
shoulder is one of the carelessest and foolishest things a body can do.
Old Hank Bunker done it once, and bragged about it; and in less than
species. And this, perhaps, might have been anticipated; for, as
That all the world besides methinks are dead.
two years he got drunk and fell off of the shot-tower, and spread
varieties, in order to become in any degree permanent, necessarily have
Since I left you, mine eye is in my mind,
And that which governs me to go about,
himself out so that he was just a kind of a layer, as you may say; and
to struggle with the other inhabitants of the country, the species
which are already dominant will be the most likely to yield offspring
they slid him edgeways between two barn doors for a coffin, and buried
Doth part his function, and is partly blind,
Seems seeing, but effectually is out:
which, though in some slight degree modified, will still inherit those
him so, so they say, but I didn’t see it. Pap told me. But anyway it
all come of looking at the moon that way, like a fool.
For it no form delivers to the heart
advantages that enabled their parents to become dominant over their
Well, the days went along, and the river went down between its banks
If the plants inhabiting a country and described in any Flora be
Of bird, of flower, or shape which it doth latch,
divided into two equal masses, all those in the larger genera being
again; and about the first thing we done was to bait one of the big
Of his quick objects hath the mind no part,
placed on one side, and all those in the smaller genera on the other
hooks with a skinned rabbit and set it and catch a catfish that was as
Nor his own vision holds what it doth catch:
side, a somewhat larger number of the very common and much diffused or
For if it see the rud’st or gentlest sight,
big as a man, being six foot two inches long, and weighed over two
The most sweet favour or deformed’st creature,
hundred pounds. We couldn’t handle him, of course; he would a flung us
dominant species will be found on the side of the larger genera. This,
again, might have been anticipated; for the mere fact of many species
into Illinois. We just set there and watched him rip and tear around
The mountain, or the sea, the day, or night:
of the same genus inhabiting any country, shows that there is something
The crow, or dove, it shapes them to your feature.
till he drownded. We found a brass button in his stomach and a round
ball, and lots of rubbage. We split the ball open with the hatchet, and
in the organic or inorganic conditions of that country favourable to
Incapable of more, replete with you,
My most true mind thus maketh mine untrue.
there was a spool in it. Jim said he’d had it there a long time, to
the genus; and, consequently, we might have expected to have found in
the larger genera, or those including many species, a large
Or whether doth my mind being crowned with you
coat it over so and make a ball of it. It was as big a fish as was ever
catched in the Mississippi, I reckon. Jim said he hadn’t ever seen a
Drink up the monarch’s plague this flattery?
proportional number of dominant species. But so many causes tend to
bigger one. He would a been worth a good deal over at the village. They
Or whether shall I say mine eye saith true,
obscure this result, that I am surprised that my tables show even a
And that your love taught it this alchemy?
peddle out such a fish as that by the pound in the market-house there;
small majority on the side of the larger genera. I will here allude to
To make of monsters, and things indigest,
only two causes of obscurity. Fresh-water and salt-loving plants have
everybody buys some of him; his meat’s as white as snow and makes a
Next morning I said it was getting slow and dull, and I wanted to get a
Such cherubins as your sweet self resemble,
generally very wide ranges and are much diffused, but this seems to be
connected with the nature of the stations inhabited by them, and has
Creating every bad a perfect best
stirring up some way. I said I reckoned I would slip over the river and
little or no relation to the size of the genera to which the species
find out what was going on. Jim liked that notion; but he said I must
As fast as objects to his beams assemble:
go in the dark and look sharp. Then he studied it over and said,
O ’tis the first, ’tis flattery in my seeing,
belong. Again, plants low in the scale of organisation are
couldn’t I put on some of them old things and dress up like a girl?
And my great mind most kingly drinks it up,
generally much more widely diffused than plants higher in the scale;
Mine eye well knows what with his gust is ’greeing,
and here again there is no close relation to the size of the genera.
That was a good notion, too. So we shortened up one of the calico
The cause of lowly-organised plants ranging widely will be discussed in
gowns, and I turned up my trouser-legs to my knees and got into it. Jim
And to his palate doth prepare the cup.
our chapter on geographical distribution.
If it be poisoned, ’tis the lesser sin,
hitched it behind with the hooks, and it was a fair fit. I put on the
From looking at species as only strongly-marked and well-defined
That mine eye loves it and doth first begin.
sun-bonnet and tied it under my chin, and then for a body to look in
varieties, I was led to anticipate that the species of the larger
and see my face was like looking down a joint of stove-pipe. Jim said
Those lines that I before have writ do lie,
nobody would know me, even in the daytime, hardly. I practiced around
Even those that said I could not love you dearer,
genera in each country would oftener present varieties, than the
Yet then my judgement knew no reason why,
species of the smaller genera; for wherever many closely related
all day to get the hang of the things, and by-and-by I could do pretty
species (_i.e._ species of the same genus) have been formed, many
well in them, only Jim said I didn’t walk like a girl; and he said I
My most full flame should afterwards burn clearer,
varieties or incipient species ought, as a general rule, to be now
But reckoning time, whose millioned accidents
must quit pulling up my gown to get at my britches-pocket. I took
Creep in ’twixt vows, and change decrees of kings,
forming. Where many large trees grow, we expect to find saplings. Where
I started up the Illinois shore in the canoe just after dark.
many species of a genus have been formed through variation,
I started across to the town from a little below the ferry-landing, and
Tan sacred beauty, blunt the sharp’st intents,
the drift of the current fetched me in at the bottom of the town. I
circumstances have been favourable for variation; and hence we might
Divert strong minds to the course of alt’ring things:
Alas why fearing of time’s tyranny,
tied up and started along the bank. There was a light burning in a
expect that the circumstances would generally be still favourable to
Might I not then say ‘Now I love you best,’
variation. On the other hand, if we look at each species as a special
little shanty that hadn’t been lived in for a long time, and I wondered
When I was certain o’er incertainty,
act of creation, there is no apparent reason why more varieties should
who had took up quarters there. I slipped up and peeped in at the
occur in a group having many species, than in one having few.
Crowning the present, doubting of the rest?
window. There was a woman about forty year old in there knitting by a
To test the truth of this anticipation I have arranged the plants of
candle that was on a pine table. I didn’t know her face; she was a
Love is a babe, then might I not say so
twelve countries, and the coleopterous insects of two districts, into
To give full growth to that which still doth grow.
stranger, for you couldn’t start a face in that town that I didn’t
know. Now this was lucky, because I was weakening; I was getting afraid
Let me not to the marriage of true minds
two nearly equal masses, the species of the larger genera on one side,
I had come; people might know my voice and find me out. But if this
Admit impediments, love is not love
and those of the smaller genera on the other side, and it has
Which alters when it alteration finds,
woman had been in such a little town two days she could tell me all I
invariably proved to be the case that a larger proportion of the
wanted to know; so I knocked at the door, and made up my mind I
Or bends with the remover to remove.
species on the side of the larger genera present varieties, than on the
O no, it is an ever-fixed mark
“Come in,” says the woman, and I did. She says: “Take a cheer.”
side of the smaller genera. Moreover, the species of the large genera
which present any varieties, invariably present a larger average number
I done it. She looked me all over with her little shiny eyes, and says:
That looks on tempests and is never shaken;
It is the star to every wand’ring bark,
of varieties than do the species of the small genera. Both these
“Where ’bouts do you live? In this neighborhood?”
Whose worth’s unknown, although his height be taken.
“No’m. In Hookerville, seven mile below. I’ve walked all the way and
results follow when another division is made, and when all the smallest
“Hungry, too, I reckon. I’ll find you something.”
Love’s not Time’s fool, though rosy lips and cheeks
genera, with from only one to four species, are absolutely excluded
facts are of plain signification on the view that species are only
“No’m, I ain’t hungry. I was so hungry I had to stop two miles below
Within his bending sickle’s compass come,
Love alters not with his brief hours and weeks,
here at a farm; so I ain’t hungry no more. It’s what makes me so late.
strongly marked and permanent varieties; for wherever many species of
My mother’s down sick, and out of money and everything, and I come to
the same genus have been formed, or where, if we may use the
But bears it out even to the edge of doom:
expression, the manufactory of species has been active, we ought
tell my uncle Abner Moore. He lives at the upper end of the town, she
If this be error and upon me proved,
says. I hain’t ever been here before. Do you know him?”
generally to find the manufactory still in action, more especially as
I never writ, nor no man ever loved.
we have every reason to believe the process of manufacturing new
Accuse me thus, that I have scanted all,
“No; but I don’t know everybody yet. I haven’t lived here quite two
weeks. It’s a considerable ways to the upper end of the town. You
species to be a slow one. And this certainly is the case, if varieties
Wherein I should your great deserts repay,
better stay here all night. Take off your bonnet.”
Forgot upon your dearest love to call,
be looked at as incipient species; for my tables clearly show as a
“No,” I says; “I’ll rest a while, I reckon, and go on. I ain’t afeared
general rule that, wherever many species of a genus have been formed,
Whereto all bonds do tie me day by day,
the species of that genus present a number of varieties, that is of
She said she wouldn’t let me go by myself, but her husband would be in
That I have frequent been with unknown minds,
And given to time your own dear-purchased right,
by-and-by, maybe in a hour and a half, and she’d send him along with
incipient species, beyond the average. It is not that all large genera
are now varying much, and are thus increasing in the number of their
That I have hoisted sail to all the winds
me. Then she got to talking about her husband, and about her relations
species, or that no small genera are now varying and increasing; for if
up the river, and her relations down the river, and about how much
Which should transport me farthest from your sight.
Book both my wilfulness and errors down,
this had been so, it would have been fatal to my theory; inasmuch as
better off they used to was, and how they didn’t know but they’d made a
mistake coming to our town, instead of letting well alone—and so on and
geology plainly tells us that small genera have in the lapse of time
And on just proof surmise, accumulate,
so on, till I was afeard _I_ had made a mistake coming to her to find
Bring me within the level of your frown,
often increased greatly in size; and that large genera have often come
But shoot not at me in your wakened hate:
to their maxima, declined, and disappeared. All that we want to show
out what was going on in the town; but by-and-by she dropped on to pap
and the murder, and then I was pretty willing to let her clatter right
is, that where many species of a genus have been formed, on an average
Since my appeal says I did strive to prove
The constancy and virtue of your love.
many are still forming; and this holds good.
along. She told about me and Tom Sawyer finding the six thousand
There are other relations between the species of large genera and their
dollars (only she got it ten) and all about pap and what a hard lot he
Like as to make our appetite more keen
was, and what a hard lot I was, and at last she got down to where I was
recorded varieties which deserve notice. We have seen that there is no
With eager compounds we our palate urge,
As to prevent our maladies unseen,
“Who done it? We’ve heard considerable about these goings on down in
infallible criterion by which to distinguish species and well-marked
We sicken to shun sickness when we purge.
Hookerville, but we don’t know who ’twas that killed Huck Finn.”
varieties; and in those cases in which intermediate links have not been
“Well, I reckon there’s a right smart chance of people _here_ that’d
Even so being full of your ne’er-cloying sweetness,
found between doubtful forms, naturalists are compelled to come to a
like to know who killed him. Some think old Finn done it himself.”
To bitter sauces did I frame my feeding;
determination by the amount of difference between them, judging by
“Most everybody thought it at first. He’ll never know how nigh he come
analogy whether or not the amount suffices to raise one or both to the
And sick of welfare found a kind of meetness,
To be diseased ere that there was true needing.
rank of species. Hence the amount of difference is one very important
to getting lynched. But before night they changed around and judged it
Thus policy in love t’ anticipate
was done by a runaway nigger named Jim.”
criterion in settling whether two forms should
The ills that were not, grew to faults assured,
I stopped. I reckoned I better keep still. She run on, and never
be ranked as species or varieties. Now Fries has remarked in regard to
plants, and Westwood in regard to insects, that in large genera the
And brought to medicine a healthful state
“The nigger run off the very night Huck Finn was killed. So there’s a
reward out for him—three hundred dollars. And there’s a reward out for
amount of difference between the species is often exceedingly small. I
Which rank of goodness would by ill be cured.
But thence I learn and find the lesson true,
have endeavoured to test this numerically by averages, and, as far as
old Finn, too—two hundred dollars. You see, he come to town the morning
after the murder, and told about it, and was out with ’em on the
Drugs poison him that so fell sick of you.
my imperfect results go, they always confirm the view. I have also
ferry-boat hunt, and right away after he up and left. Before night they
consulted some sagacious and most experienced observers, and, after
What potions have I drunk of Siren tears
Distilled from limbecks foul as hell within,
wanted to lynch him, but he was gone, you see. Well, next day they
deliberation, they concur in this view. In this respect, therefore, the
found out the nigger was gone; they found out he hadn’t ben seen sence
Applying fears to hopes, and hopes to fears,
species of the larger genera resemble varieties, more than do the
ten o’clock the night the murder was done. So then they put it on him,
Still losing when I saw my self to win!
species of the smaller genera. Or the case may be put in another way,
you see; and while they was full of it, next day, back comes old Finn,
What wretched errors hath my heart committed,
and it may be said, that in the larger genera, in which a number of
Whilst it hath thought it self so blessed never!
and went boo-hooing to Judge Thatcher to get money to hunt for the
varieties or incipient species greater than the average are now
nigger all over Illinois with. The judge gave him some, and that
How have mine eyes out of their spheres been fitted
manufacturing, many of the species already manufactured still to a
certain extent resemble varieties, for they differ from each other by a
evening he got drunk, and was around till after midnight with a couple
In the distraction of this madding fever!
O benefit of ill, now I find true
less than usual amount of difference.
of mighty hard-looking strangers, and then went off with them. Well, he
That better is, by evil still made better.
Moreover, the species of the large genera are related to each other, in
hain’t come back sence, and they ain’t looking for him back till this
the same manner as the varieties of any one species are related to each
thing blows over a little, for people thinks now that he killed his boy
And ruined love when it is built anew
and fixed things so folks would think robbers done it, and then he’d
other. No naturalist pretends that all the species of a genus are
Grows fairer than at first, more strong, far greater.
So I return rebuked to my content,
equally distinct from each other; they may generally be divided into
get Huck’s money without having to bother a long time with a lawsuit.
And gain by ills thrice more than I have spent.
sub-genera, or sections, or lesser groups. As Fries has well remarked,
People do say he warn’t any too good to do it. Oh, he’s sly, I reckon.
little groups of species are generally clustered like satellites around
If he don’t come back for a year he’ll be all right. You can’t prove
That you were once unkind befriends me now,
anything on him, you know; everything will be quieted down then, and
certain other species. And what are varieties but groups of forms,
And for that sorrow, which I then did feel,
Needs must I under my transgression bow,
unequally related to each other, and clustered round certain forms—that
he’ll walk in Huck’s money as easy as nothing.”
“Yes, I reckon so, ’m. I don’t see nothing in the way of it. Has
is, round their parent-species? Undoubtedly there is one most important
Unless my nerves were brass or hammered steel.
point of difference between varieties and species; namely, that the
everybody quit thinking the nigger done it?”
For if you were by my unkindness shaken
amount of difference between varieties, when compared with each other
As I by yours, y’have passed a hell of time,
“Oh, no, not everybody. A good many thinks he done it. But they’ll get
the nigger pretty soon now, and maybe they can scare it out of him.”
or with their parent-species, is much less than that between the
And I a tyrant have no leisure taken
species of the same genus. But when we come to discuss the principle,
To weigh how once I suffered in your crime.
“Why, are they after him yet?”
O that our night of woe might have remembered
“Well, you’re innocent, ain’t you! Does three hundred dollars lay
as I call it, of Divergence of Character,
My deepest sense, how hard true sorrow hits,
we shall see how this may be explained, and how the lesser differences
around every day for people to pick up? Some folks think the nigger
between varieties will tend to increase into the greater differences
ain’t far from here. I’m one of them—but I hain’t talked it around. A
And soon to you, as you to me then tendered
There is one other point which seems to me worth notice. Varieties
The humble salve, which wounded bosoms fits!
few days ago I was talking with an old couple that lives next door in
But that your trespass now becomes a fee,
the log shanty, and they happened to say hardly anybody ever goes to
generally have much restricted ranges: this statement is indeed
that island over yonder that they call Jackson’s Island. Don’t anybody
scarcely more than a truism, for if a variety were found to have a
Mine ransoms yours, and yours must ransom me.
live there? says I. No, nobody, says they. I didn’t say any more, but I
’Tis better to be vile than vile esteemed,
wider range than that of its supposed parent-species, their
When not to be, receives reproach of being,
denominations ought to be reversed. But there is also reason to
done some thinking. I was pretty near certain I’d seen smoke over
there, about the head of the island, a day or two before that, so I
And the just pleasure lost, which is so deemed,
believe, that those species which are very closely allied to other
species, and in so far resemble varieties, often have much restricted
Not by our feeling, but by others’ seeing.
says to myself, like as not that nigger’s hiding over there; anyway,
says I, it’s worth the trouble to give the place a hunt. I hain’t seen
ranges. For instance, Mr. H. C. Watson has marked for me in the
For why should others’ false adulterate eyes
well-sifted London Catalogue of plants (4th edition) 63 plants which
any smoke sence, so I reckon maybe he’s gone, if it was him; but
Give salutation to my sportive blood?
husband’s going over to see—him and another man. He was gone up the
are therein ranked as species, but which he considers as so closely
Or on my frailties why are frailer spies,
Which in their wills count bad what I think good?
river; but he got back to-day, and I told him as soon as he got here
allied to other species as to be of doubtful value: these 63 reputed
I had got so uneasy I couldn’t set still. I had to do something with my
species range on an average over 6.9 of the provinces into which Mr.
No, I am that I am, and they that level
Watson has divided Great Britain. Now, in this same catalogue, 53
At my abuses, reckon up their own,
hands; so I took up a needle off of the table and went to threading it.
I may be straight though they themselves be bevel;
My hands shook, and I was making a bad job of it. When the woman
acknowledged varieties are recorded, and these range over 7.7
provinces; whereas, the species to which these varieties belong range
stopped talking I looked up, and she was looking at me pretty curious
By their rank thoughts, my deeds must not be shown
and smiling a little. I put down the needle and thread, and let on to
Unless this general evil they maintain,
over 14.3 provinces. So that the acknowledged varieties have very
All men are bad and in their badness reign.
nearly the same restricted average range, as have those very closely
be interested—and I was, too—and says:
allied forms, marked for me by Mr. Watson as doubtful species, but
Thy gift, thy tables, are within my brain
“Three hundred dollars is a power of money. I wish my mother could get
which are almost universally ranked by British botanists as good and
Full charactered with lasting memory,
it. Is your husband going over there to-night?”
“Oh, yes. He went up-town with the man I was telling you of, to get a
Finally, then, varieties have the same general characters as species,
Which shall above that idle rank remain
Beyond all date even to eternity.
boat and see if they could borrow another gun. They’ll go over after
for they cannot be distinguished from species,—except, firstly, by the
Or at the least, so long as brain and heart
“Couldn’t they see better if they was to wait till daytime?”
discovery of intermediate linking forms, and the occurrence of such
“Yes. And couldn’t the nigger see better, too? After midnight he’ll
Have faculty by nature to subsist,
links cannot affect the actual characters of the forms which they
connect; and except, secondly, by a certain amount of
likely be asleep, and they can slip around through the woods and hunt
Till each to razed oblivion yield his part
difference, for two forms, if differing very little, are generally
up his camp fire all the better for the dark, if he’s got one.”
Of thee, thy record never can be missed:
That poor retention could not so much hold,
ranked as varieties, notwithstanding that intermediate linking forms
The woman kept looking at me pretty curious, and I didn’t feel a bit
have not been discovered; but the amount of difference considered
comfortable. Pretty soon she says,
Nor need I tallies thy dear love to score,
“What did you say your name was, honey?”
Therefore to give them from me was I bold,
necessary to give to two forms the rank of species is quite indefinite.
Somehow it didn’t seem to me that I said it was Mary before, so I
To trust those tables that receive thee more:
In genera having more than the average number of species in any
To keep an adjunct to remember thee
country, the species of these genera have more than the average number
didn’t look up—seemed to me I said it was Sarah; so I felt sort of
of varieties. In large genera the species are apt to be closely, but
cornered, and was afeared maybe I was looking it, too. I wished the
Were to import forgetfulness in me.
unequally, allied together, forming little clusters round certain
No! Time, thou shalt not boast that I do change,
woman would say something more; the longer she set still the uneasier I
Thy pyramids built up with newer might
species. Species very closely allied to other species apparently have
“Honey, I thought you said it was Sarah when you first come in?”
restricted ranges. In all these several respects the species of large
“Oh, yes’m, I did. Sarah Mary Williams. Sarah’s my first name. Some
To me are nothing novel, nothing strange,
They are but dressings of a former sight:
genera present a strong analogy with varieties. And we can clearly
calls me Sarah, some calls me Mary.”
I was feeling better then, but I wished I was out of there, anyway. I
Our dates are brief, and therefore we admire,
understand these analogies, if species have once existed as varieties,
and have thus originated: whereas, these analogies are utterly
Well, the woman fell to talking about how hard times was, and how poor
What thou dost foist upon us that is old,
they had to live, and how the rats was as free as if they owned the
And rather make them born to our desire,
inexplicable if each species has been independently created.
place, and so forth and so on, and then I got easy again. She was right
Than think that we before have heard them told:
We have, also, seen that it is the most flourishing and dominant
species of the larger genera which on an average vary most; and
about the rats. You’d see one stick his nose out of a hole in the
Thy registers and thee I both defy,
varieties, as we shall hereafter see, tend to become converted into new
corner every little while. She said she had to have things handy to
Not wond’ring at the present, nor the past,
and distinct species. The larger genera thus tend to become larger; and
throw at them when she was alone, or they wouldn’t give her no peace.
For thy records, and what we see doth lie,
Made more or less by thy continual haste:
throughout nature the forms of life which are now dominant tend to
She showed me a bar of lead twisted up into a knot, and said she was a
become still more dominant by leaving many modified and dominant
good shot with it generly, but she’d wrenched her arm a day or two ago,
This I do vow and this shall ever be,
descendants. But by steps hereafter to be explained, the larger genera
and didn’t know whether she could throw true now. But she watched for a
I will be true despite thy scythe and thee.
If my dear love were but the child of state,
also tend to break up into smaller genera. And thus, the forms of life
chance, and directly banged away at a rat; but she missed him wide, and
It might for Fortune’s bastard be unfathered,
said “Ouch!” it hurt her arm so. Then she told me to try for the next
throughout the universe become divided into groups subordinate to
As subject to time’s love or to time’s hate,
Bears on natural selection. The term used in a wide sense. Geometrical
one. I wanted to be getting away before the old man got back, but of
course I didn’t let on. I got the thing, and the first rat that showed
powers of increase. Rapid increase of naturalised animals and plants.
Weeds among weeds, or flowers with flowers gathered.
No it was builded far from accident,
Nature of the checks to increase. Competition universal. Effects of
his nose I let drive, and if he’d a stayed where he was he’d a been a
It suffers not in smiling pomp, nor falls
tolerable sick rat. She said that was first-rate, and she reckoned I
climate. Protection from the number of individuals. Complex relations
would hive the next one. She went and got the lump of lead and fetched
of all animals and plants throughout nature. Struggle for life most
Under the blow of thralled discontent,
Whereto th’ inviting time our fashion calls:
it back, and brought along a hank of yarn which she wanted me to help
severe between individuals and varieties of the same species; often
severe between species of the same genus. The relation of organism to
her with. I held up my two hands and she put the hank over them, and
It fears not policy that heretic,
Which works on leases of short-numbered hours,
went on talking about her and her husband’s matters. But she broke off
organism the most important of all relations.
“Keep your eye on the rats. You better have the lead in your lap,
But all alone stands hugely politic,
Before entering on the subject of this chapter, I must make a few
So she dropped the lump into my lap just at that moment, and I clapped
That it nor grows with heat, nor drowns with showers.
preliminary remarks, to show how the struggle for existence bears on
Natural Selection. It has been seen in the last chapter that amongst
To this I witness call the fools of time,
my legs together on it and she went on talking. But only about a
minute. Then she took off the hank and looked me straight in the face,
organic beings in a state of nature there is some individual
Which die for goodness, who have lived for crime.
variability; indeed I am not aware that this has ever been disputed. It
“Come, now, what’s your real name?”
Were’t aught to me I bore the canopy,
“What’s your real name? Is it Bill, or Tom, or Bob?—or what is it?”
With my extern the outward honouring,
is immaterial for us whether a multitude of doubtful forms be called
species or sub-species or varieties; what rank, for instance, the two
I reckon I shook like a leaf, and I didn’t know hardly what to do. But
Or laid great bases for eternity,
Which proves more short than waste or ruining?
“Please to don’t poke fun at a poor girl like me, mum. If I’m in the
or three hundred doubtful forms of British plants are entitled to hold,
Have I not seen dwellers on form and favour
if the existence of any well-marked varieties be admitted. But the mere
“No, you won’t. Set down and stay where you are. I ain’t going to hurt
Lose all, and more by paying too much rent
you, and I ain’t going to tell on you, nuther. You just tell me your
existence of individual variability and of some few well-marked
varieties, though necessary as the foundation for the work, helps us
secret, and trust me. I’ll keep it; and, what’s more, I’ll help you.
For compound sweet; forgoing simple savour,
Pitiful thrivers in their gazing spent?
So’ll my old man if you want him to. You see, you’re a runaway
but little in understanding how species arise in nature. How have all
’prentice, that’s all. It ain’t anything. There ain’t no harm in it.
No, let me be obsequious in thy heart,
those exquisite adaptations of one part of the organisation to another
part, and to the conditions of life, and of one distinct organic being
And take thou my oblation, poor but free,
You’ve been treated bad, and you made up your mind to cut. Bless you,
Which is not mixed with seconds, knows no art,
child, I wouldn’t tell on you. Tell me all about it now, that’s a good
to another being, been perfected? We see these beautiful co-adaptations
But mutual render, only me for thee.
most plainly in the woodpecker and missletoe; and only a little less
So I said it wouldn’t be no use to try to play it any longer, and I
Hence, thou suborned informer, a true soul
would just make a clean breast and tell her everything, but she musn’t
plainly in the humblest parasite which clings
When most impeached, stands least in thy control.
go back on her promise. Then I told her my father and mother was dead,
to the hairs of a quadruped or feathers of a bird; in the structure of
and the law had bound me out to a mean old farmer in the country thirty
the beetle which dives through the water; in the plumed seed which is
O thou my lovely boy who in thy power,
mile back from the river, and he treated me so bad I couldn’t stand it
wafted by the gentlest breeze; in short, we see beautiful adaptations
Dost hold Time’s fickle glass his fickle hour:
no longer; he went away to be gone a couple of days, and so I took my
everywhere and in every part of the organic world.
Who hast by waning grown, and therein show’st,
chance and stole some of his daughter’s old clothes and cleared out,
Thy lovers withering, as thy sweet self grow’st.
Again, it may be asked, how is it that varieties, which I have called
and I had been three nights coming the thirty miles. I traveled nights,
incipient species, become ultimately converted into good and distinct
If Nature (sovereign mistress over wrack)
As thou goest onwards still will pluck thee back,
species, which in most cases obviously differ from each other far more
and hid daytimes and slept, and the bag of bread and meat I carried
than do the varieties of the same species? How do those groups of
from home lasted me all the way, and I had a-plenty. I said I believed
She keeps thee to this purpose, that her skill
species, which constitute what are called distinct genera, and which
May time disgrace, and wretched minutes kill.
my uncle Abner Moore would take care of me, and so that was why I
struck out for this town of Goshen.
differ from each other more than do the species of the same genus,
Yet fear her O thou minion of her pleasure,
She may detain, but not still keep her treasure!
arise? All these results, as we shall more fully see in the next
“Goshen, child? This ain’t Goshen. This is St. Petersburg. Goshen’s ten
chapter, follow inevitably from the struggle for life. Owing to this
mile further up the river. Who told you this was Goshen?”
Her audit (though delayed) answered must be,
struggle for life, any variation, however slight and from whatever
“Why, a man I met at daybreak this morning, just as I was going to turn
And her quietus is to render thee.
cause proceeding, if it be in any degree profitable to an individual of
into the woods for my regular sleep. He told me when the roads forked I
In the old age black was not counted fair,
must take the right hand, and five mile would fetch me to Goshen.”
any species, in its infinitely complex relations to other organic
Or if it were it bore not beauty’s name:
beings and to external nature, will tend to the preservation of that
“He was drunk, I reckon. He told you just exactly wrong.”
But now is black beauty’s successive heir,
individual, and will generally be inherited by its offspring. The
And beauty slandered with a bastard shame,
“Well, he did act like he was drunk, but it ain’t no matter now. I got
For since each hand hath put on nature’s power,
offspring, also, will thus have a better chance of surviving, for, of
to be moving along. I’ll fetch Goshen before daylight.”
“Hold on a minute. I’ll put you up a snack to eat. You might want it.”
Fairing the foul with art’s false borrowed face,
the many individuals of any species which are periodically born, but a
So she put me up a snack, and says:
Sweet beauty hath no name, no holy bower,
small number can survive. I have called this principle, by which each
But is profaned, if not lives in disgrace.
“Say, when a cow’s laying down, which end of her gets up first? Answer
slight variation, if useful, is preserved, by the term of Natural
Therefore my mistress’ eyes are raven black,
Selection, in order to mark its relation to man’s power of selection.
up prompt now—don’t stop to study over it. Which end gets up first?”
Her eyes so suited, and they mourners seem
We have seen that man by selection can certainly produce great results,
“Which side of a tree does the moss grow on?”
and can adapt organic beings to his own uses, through the accumulation
“If fifteen cows is browsing on a hillside, how many of them eats with
At such who not born fair no beauty lack,
of slight but useful variations, given to him by the hand of Nature.
their heads pointed the same direction?”
Slandering creation with a false esteem,
Yet so they mourn becoming of their woe,
But Natural Selection, as we shall hereafter see, is a power
“Well, I reckon you _have_ lived in the country. I thought maybe you
That every tongue says beauty should look so.
incessantly ready for action, and is as immeasurably superior to man’s
was trying to hocus me again. What’s your real name, now?”
How oft when thou, my music, music play’st,
feeble efforts, as the works of Nature are to those of Art.
“Well, try to remember it, George. Don’t forget and tell me it’s
Upon that blessed wood whose motion sounds
We will now discuss in a little more detail the struggle for existence.
Elexander before you go, and then get out by saying it’s George
Elexander when I catch you. And don’t go about women in that old
In my future work this subject shall be treated, as it well deserves,
With thy sweet fingers when thou gently sway’st
calico. You do a girl tolerable poor, but you might fool men, maybe.
at much greater length. The elder De Candolle and Lyell have largely
The wiry concord that mine ear confounds,
and philosophically shown that all organic beings are exposed to severe
Bless you, child, when you set out to thread a needle don’t hold the
Do I envy those jacks that nimble leap,
thread still and fetch the needle up to it; hold the needle still and
competition. In regard to plants, no one has treated this subject with
To kiss the tender inward of thy hand,
more spirit and ability than W. Herbert, Dean of Manchester, evidently
Whilst my poor lips which should that harvest reap,
poke the thread at it; that’s the way a woman most always does, but a
At the wood’s boldness by thee blushing stand.
man always does t’other way. And when you throw at a rat or anything,
the result of his great horticultural knowledge. Nothing is easier than
To be so tickled they would change their state
hitch yourself up a tiptoe and fetch your hand up over your head as
to admit in words the truth of the universal struggle for life, or more
awkward as you can, and miss your rat about six or seven foot. Throw
difficult—at least I have found it so—than constantly to bear this
And situation with those dancing chips,
stiff-armed from the shoulder, like there was a pivot there for it to
O’er whom thy fingers walk with gentle gait,
conclusion in mind. Yet unless it be thoroughly engrained in the mind,
Making dead wood more blest than living lips,
turn on, like a girl; not from the wrist and elbow, with your arm out
I am convinced that the whole economy of nature, with every fact on
to one side, like a boy. And, mind you, when a girl tries to catch
distribution, rarity, abundance, extinction, and variation, will be
Since saucy jacks so happy are in this,
anything in her lap she throws her knees apart; she don’t clap them
Give them thy fingers, me thy lips to kiss.
dimly seen or quite misunderstood. We behold the face of nature bright
together, the way you did when you catched the lump of lead. Why, I
Th’ expense of spirit in a waste of shame
with gladness, we often see superabundance of food; we do not see, or
we forget, that the birds which are idly singing round us mostly live
spotted you for a boy when you was threading the needle; and I
Is lust in action, and till action, lust
contrived the other things just to make certain. Now trot along to your
Is perjured, murd’rous, bloody full of blame,
on insects or seeds, and are thus constantly destroying life; or we
forget how largely these songsters, or their eggs, or their nestlings,
Savage, extreme, rude, cruel, not to trust,
uncle, Sarah Mary Williams George Elexander Peters, and if you get into
trouble you send word to Mrs. Judith Loftus, which is me, and I’ll do
are destroyed by birds and beasts of prey; we do not always bear in
Enjoyed no sooner but despised straight,
what I can to get you out of it. Keep the river road all the way, and
Past reason hunted, and no sooner had
mind, that though food may be now superabundant, it is not so at all
Past reason hated as a swallowed bait,
seasons of each recurring year.
next time you tramp take shoes and socks with you. The river road’s a
On purpose laid to make the taker mad.
rocky one, and your feet’ll be in a condition when you get to Goshen, I
I should premise that I use the term Struggle for Existence in a large
I went up the bank about fifty yards, and then I doubled on my tracks
and metaphorical sense, including dependence of one being on another,
Mad in pursuit and in possession so,
and including (which is more important) not only the life of the
Had, having, and in quest, to have extreme,
and slipped back to where my canoe was, a good piece below the house. I
A bliss in proof, and proved, a very woe;
jumped in, and was off in a hurry. I went up-stream far enough to make
individual, but success in leaving progeny. Two canine animals in a
time of dearth, may be truly said to struggle with each other which
the head of the island, and then started across. I took off the
Before a joy proposed behind a dream.
sun-bonnet, for I didn’t want no blinders on then. When I was about the
shall get food and live. But a plant on the edge of a desert is said to
All this the world well knows yet none knows well,
middle I heard the clock begin to strike, so I stops and listens; the
To shun the heaven that leads men to this hell.
struggle for life against the drought, though more properly it should
be said to be dependent on the moisture. A
My mistress’ eyes are nothing like the sun,
sound come faint over the water but clear—eleven. When I struck the
plant which annually produces a thousand seeds, of which on an average
Coral is far more red, than her lips red,
head of the island I never waited to blow, though I was most winded,
only one comes to maturity, may be more truly said to struggle with the
but I shoved right into the timber where my old camp used to be, and
If snow be white, why then her breasts are dun:
plants of the same and other kinds which already clothe the ground. The
If hairs be wires, black wires grow on her head:
started a good fire there on a high and dry spot.
Then I jumped in the canoe and dug out for our place, a mile and a half
I have seen roses damasked, red and white,
missletoe is dependent on the apple and a few other trees, but can only
below, as hard as I could go. I landed, and slopped through the timber
But no such roses see I in her cheeks,
in a far-fetched sense be said to struggle with these trees, for if too
And in some perfumes is there more delight,
many of these parasites grow on the same tree, it will languish and
and up the ridge and into the cavern. There Jim laid, sound asleep on
Than in the breath that from my mistress reeks.
the ground. I roused him out and says:
die. But several seedling missletoes, growing close together on the
I love to hear her speak, yet well I know,
same branch, may more truly be said to struggle with each other. As the
“Git up and hump yourself, Jim! There ain’t a minute to lose. They’re
missletoe is disseminated by birds, its existence depends on birds; and
That music hath a far more pleasing sound:
Jim never asked no questions, he never said a word; but the way he
I grant I never saw a goddess go;
it may metaphorically be said to struggle with other fruit-bearing
worked for the next half an hour showed about how he was scared. By
My mistress when she walks treads on the ground.
plants, in order to tempt birds to devour and thus disseminate its
that time everything we had in the world was on our raft, and she was
ready to be shoved out from the willow cove where she was hid. We put
seeds rather than those of other plants. In these several senses, which
And yet by heaven I think my love as rare,
out the camp fire at the cavern the first thing, and didn’t show a
As any she belied with false compare.
pass into each other, I use for convenience sake the general term of
Thou art as tyrannous, so as thou art,
A struggle for existence inevitably follows from the high rate at which
I took the canoe out from the shore a little piece, and took a look;
As those whose beauties proudly make them cruel;
all organic beings tend to increase. Every being, which during its
but if there was a boat around I couldn’t see it, for stars and shadows
ain’t good to see by. Then we got out the raft and slipped along down
natural lifetime produces several eggs or seeds, must suffer
For well thou know’st to my dear doting heart
in the shade, past the foot of the island dead still—never saying a
destruction during some period of its life, and during some season or
Thou art the fairest and most precious jewel.
Yet in good faith some say that thee behold,
occasional year, otherwise, on the principle of geometrical increase,
It must a been close on to one o’clock when we got below the island at
Thy face hath not the power to make love groan;
last, and the raft did seem to go mighty slow. If a boat was to come
its numbers would quickly become so inordinately great that no country
To say they err, I dare not be so bold,
could support the product. Hence, as more individuals are produced than
along we was going to take to the canoe and break for the Illinois
Although I swear it to my self alone.
can possibly survive, there must in every case be a struggle for
shore; and it was well a boat didn’t come, for we hadn’t ever thought
And to be sure that is not false I swear,
to put the gun in the canoe, or a fishing-line, or anything to eat. We
existence, either one individual with another of the same species, or
with the individuals of distinct species, or with the physical
was in ruther too much of a sweat to think of so many things. It warn’t
A thousand groans but thinking on thy face,
good judgment to put _everything_ on the raft.
One on another’s neck do witness bear
conditions of life. It is the doctrine of Malthus applied with manifold
Thy black is fairest in my judgement’s place.
If the men went to the island I just expect they found the camp fire I
force to the whole animal and vegetable kingdoms; for in this case
In nothing art thou black save in thy deeds,
there can be no artificial increase of food, and no prudential
built, and watched it all night for Jim to come. Anyways, they stayed
away from us, and if my building the fire never fooled them it warn’t
restraint from marriage. Although some species may be
And thence this slander as I think proceeds.
no fault of mine. I played it as low down on them as I could.
now increasing, more or less rapidly, in numbers, all cannot do so, for
Thine eyes I love, and they as pitying me,
the world would not hold them.
When the first streak of day began to show we tied up to a tow-head in a
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
big bend on the Illinois side, and hacked off cottonwood branches with
There is no exception to the rule that every organic being naturally
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
the hatchet, and covered up the raft with them so she looked like there
increases at so high a rate, that if not destroyed, the earth would
Looking with pretty ruth upon my pain.
had been a cave-in in the bank there. A tow-head is a sandbar that has
And truly not the morning sun of heaven
soon be covered by the progeny of a single pair. Even slow-breeding man
Better becomes the grey cheeks of the east,
has doubled in twenty-five years, and at this rate, in a few thousand
cottonwoods on it as thick as harrow-teeth.
years, there would literally not be standing room for his progeny.
Nor that full star that ushers in the even
We had mountains on the Missouri shore and heavy timber on the Illinois
Doth half that glory to the sober west
Linnæus has calculated that if an annual plant produced only two
side, and the channel was down the Missouri shore at that place, so we
seeds—and there is no plant so unproductive as this—and their seedlings
As those two mourning eyes become thy face:
warn’t afraid of anybody running across us. We laid there all day, and
O let it then as well beseem thy heart
next year produced two, and so on, then in twenty years there would be
watched the rafts and steamboats spin down the Missouri shore, and
a million plants. The elephant is reckoned to be the slowest breeder of
up-bound steamboats fight the big river in the middle. I told Jim all
To mourn for me since mourning doth thee grace,
about the time I had jabbering with that woman; and Jim said she was a
all known animals, and I have taken some pains to estimate its probable
And suit thy pity like in every part.
minimum rate of natural increase: it will be under the mark to assume
smart one, and if she was to start after us herself _she_ wouldn’t set
Then will I swear beauty herself is black,
that it breeds when thirty years old, and goes on breeding till ninety
down and watch a camp fire—no, sir, she’d fetch a dog. Well, then, I
And all they foul that thy complexion lack.
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
said, why couldn’t she tell her husband to fetch a dog? Jim said he bet
years old, bringing forth three pair of young in this interval; if this
she did think of it by the time the men was ready to start, and he
be so, at the end of the fifth century there would be alive fifteen
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me;
Is’t not enough to torture me alone,
believed they must a gone up-town to get a dog and so they lost all
million elephants, descended from the first pair.
But we have better evidence on this subject than mere theoretical
But slave to slavery my sweet’st friend must be?
that time, or else we wouldn’t be here on a tow-head sixteen or
calculations, namely, the numerous recorded cases of the astonishingly
seventeen mile below the village—no, indeedy, we would be in that same
Me from my self thy cruel eye hath taken,
old town again. So I said I didn’t care what was the reason they didn’t
And my next self thou harder hast engrossed,
rapid increase of various animals in a state of nature, when
get us as long as they didn’t.
circumstances have been favourable to them during two or three
Of him, my self, and thee I am forsaken,
When it was beginning to come on dark we poked our heads out of the
A torment thrice three-fold thus to be crossed:
following seasons. Still more striking is the evidence from our
Prison my heart in thy steel bosom’s ward,
domestic animals of many kinds which have run wild in several parts of
cottonwood thicket, and looked up and down and across; nothing in
the world: if the statements of the rate of increase of slow-breeding
But then my friend’s heart let my poor heart bail,
sight; so Jim took up some of the top planks of the raft and built a
cattle and horses in South America, and latterly in Australia, had not
Whoe’er keeps me, let my heart be his guard,
snug wigwam to get under in blazing weather and rainy, and to keep the
things dry. Jim made a floor for the wigwam, and raised it a foot or
been well authenticated, they would have been quite incredible. So it
Thou canst not then use rigour in my gaol.
is with plants: cases could be given of introduced plants which have
And yet thou wilt, for I being pent in thee,
more above the level of the raft, so now the blankets and all the traps
become common throughout whole islands in a period of less than ten
was out of reach of steamboat waves. Right in the middle of the wigwam
Perforce am thine and all that is in me.
of the plants now most numerous over the wide plains of La Plata,
we made a layer of dirt about five or six inches deep with a frame
So now I have confessed that he is thine,
around it for to hold it to its place; this was to build a fire on in
And I my self am mortgaged to thy will,
clothing square leagues of surface almost to the exclusion of all other
My self I’ll forfeit, so that other mine,
plants, have been introduced from Europe; and there are plants which
sloppy weather or chilly; the wigwam would keep it from being seen. We
Thou wilt restore to be my comfort still:
made an extra steering-oar, too, because one of the others might get
now range in India, as I hear from Dr. Falconer, from Cape Comorin to
the Himalaya, which have been imported from America since its
But thou wilt not, nor he will not be free,
broke on a snag or something. We fixed up a short forked stick to hang
discovery. In such cases, and endless instances could be given, no one
For thou art covetous, and he is kind,
the old lantern on, because we must always light the lantern whenever
He learned but surety-like to write for me,
supposes that the fertility of these animals or plants has been
we see a steamboat coming down-stream, to keep from getting run over;
suddenly and temporarily increased in any sensible degree. The obvious
Under that bond that him as fist doth bind.
but we wouldn’t have to light it for up-stream boats unless we see we
The statute of thy beauty thou wilt take,
was in what they call a “crossing”; for the river was pretty high yet,
explanation is that the conditions of life have been very favourable,
Thou usurer that put’st forth all to use,
very low banks being still a little under water; so up-bound boats
and that there has consequently been less destruction of the old and
And sue a friend, came debtor for my sake,
young, and that nearly all the young have been enabled to breed. In
didn’t always run the channel, but hunted easy water.
This second night we run between seven and eight hours, with a current
such cases the geometrical ratio of increase, the result of which never
So him I lose through my unkind abuse.
that was making over four mile an hour. We catched fish and talked, and
fails to be surprising, simply explains the extraordinarily rapid
Him have I lost, thou hast both him and me,
He pays the whole, and yet am I not free.
increase and wide diffusion of naturalised productions in their new
we took a swim now and then to keep off sleepiness. It was kind of
In a state of nature almost every plant produces seed, and amongst
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
solemn, drifting down the big, still river, laying on our backs looking
animals there are very few which do not annually pair. Hence we may
up at the stars, and we didn’t ever feel like talking loud, and it
And Will to boot, and Will in overplus,
confidently assert, that all plants and animals are tending to increase
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
warn’t often that we laughed—only a little kind of a low chuckle. We
To thy sweet will making addition thus.
at a geometrical ratio, that all would most rapidly stock every station
had mighty good weather as a general thing, and nothing ever happened
in which they could any how exist, and that the geometrical tendency to
Wilt thou whose will is large and spacious,
to us at all—that night, nor the next, nor the next.
Not once vouchsafe to hide my will in thine?
increase must be checked by destruction at some period of life. Our
Every night we passed towns, some of them away up on black hillsides,
familiarity with the larger domestic animals tends, I think, to mislead
Shall will in others seem right gracious,
nothing but just a shiny bed of lights; not a house could you see. The
fifth night we passed St. Louis, and it was like the whole world lit
us: we see no great destruction falling on them, and we forget that
And in my will no fair acceptance shine?
thousands are annually slaughtered for food, and that in a state of
The sea all water, yet receives rain still,
up. In St. Petersburg they used to say there was twenty or thirty
thousand people in St. Louis, but I never believed it till I see that
nature an equal number would have somehow to be disposed of.
And in abundance addeth to his store,
wonderful spread of lights at two o’clock that still night. There
The only difference between organisms which annually produce eggs or
So thou being rich in will add to thy will
seeds by the thousand, and those which produce extremely few, is, that
warn’t a sound there; everybody was asleep.
One will of mine to make thy large will more.
Every night now I used to slip ashore towards ten o’clock at some
Let no unkind, no fair beseechers kill,
the slow-breeders would require a few more years to people, under
Think all but one, and me in that one Will.
little village, and buy ten or fifteen cents’ worth of meal or bacon or
conditions, a whole district, let it be ever so large. The condor lays
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
a couple of eggs and the ostrich a score, and yet in the same country
other stuff to eat; and sometimes I lifted a chicken that warn’t
the condor may be the more numerous of the two: the Fulmar petrel lays
roosting comfortable, and took him along. Pap always said, take a
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy Will,
chicken when you get a chance, because if you don’t want him yourself
And will thy soul knows is admitted there,
but one egg, yet it is believed to be the most numerous bird in the
you can easy find somebody that does, and a good deed ain’t ever
world. One fly deposits hundreds of eggs, and another, like the
Thus far for love, my love-suit sweet fulfil.
Will will fulfil the treasure of thy love,
hippobosca, a single one; but this difference does not determine how
forgot. I never see pap when he didn’t want the chicken himself, but
many individuals of the two species can be supported in a district. A
that is what he used to say, anyway.
Ay, fill it full with wills, and my will one,
large number of eggs is of some importance to those species, which
Mornings before daylight I slipped into cornfields and borrowed a
In things of great receipt with case we prove,
depend on a rapidly fluctuating amount of food, for it allows them
Among a number one is reckoned none.
watermelon, or a mushmelon, or a punkin, or some new corn, or things of
Then in the number let me pass untold,
that kind. Pap always said it warn’t no harm to borrow things if you
rapidly to increase in number. But the real importance of a large
was meaning to pay them back some time; but the widow said it warn’t
Though in thy store’s account I one must be,
number of eggs or seeds is to make up for much destruction at some
anything but a soft name for stealing, and no decent body would do it.
period of life; and this period in the great majority of cases is an
For nothing hold me, so it please thee hold,
early one. If an animal can in any way protect its own eggs or young, a
Jim said he reckoned the widow was partly right and pap was partly
That nothing me, a something sweet to thee.
small number may be produced, and yet the average stock be fully kept
Make but my name thy love, and love that still,
right; so the best way would be for us to pick out two or three things
from the list and say we wouldn’t borrow them any more—then he reckoned
And then thou lov’st me for my name is Will.
up; but if many eggs or young are destroyed, many must be produced, or
Thou blind fool Love, what dost thou to mine eyes,
the species will become extinct. It would suffice to keep up the full
it wouldn’t be no harm to borrow the others. So we talked it over all
number of a tree, which lived on an average for a thousand years, if a
That they behold and see not what they see?
one night, drifting along down the river, trying to make up our minds
whether to drop the watermelons, or the cantelopes, or the mushmelons,
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
single seed were produced once in a thousand years, supposing that this
seed were never destroyed, and could be ensured to germinate in a
or what. But towards daylight we got it all settled satisfactory, and
Yet what the best is, take the worst to be.
fitting place. So that in all cases, the average number of any animal
concluded to drop crabapples and p’simmons. We warn’t feeling just
If eyes corrupt by over-partial looks,
Be anchored in the bay where all men ride,
or plant depends only indirectly on the number of its eggs or seeds.
right before that, but it was all comfortable now. I was glad the way
In looking at Nature, it is most necessary to keep the foregoing
it come out, too, because crabapples ain’t ever good, and the p’simmons
Why of eyes’ falsehood hast thou forged hooks,
wouldn’t be ripe for two or three months yet.
considerations always in mind—never to forget that every single organic
Whereto the judgement of my heart is tied?
We shot a water-fowl, now and, then that got up too early in the morning
Why should my heart think that a several plot,
being around us may be said to be striving to the utmost to increase in
Which my heart knows the wide world’s common place?
or didn’t go to bed early enough in the evening. Take it all round, we
numbers; that each lives by a struggle at some period of its life; that
The fifth night below St. Louis we had a big storm after midnight, with
Or mine eyes seeing this, say this is not
heavy destruction inevitably falls either on the young or old, during
To put fair truth upon so foul a face?
each generation or at recurrent intervals. Lighten any check, mitigate
a power of thunder and lightning, and the rain poured down in a solid
In things right true my heart and eyes have erred,
sheet. We stayed in the wigwam and let the raft take care of itself.
destruction ever so little, and the number of the species will almost
And to this false plague are they now transferred.
instantaneously increase to any amount. The face of Nature may be
When the lightning glared out we could see a big straight river ahead,
and high, rocky bluffs on both sides. By-and-by says I, “Hel-_lo_, Jim,
When my love swears that she is made of truth,
compared to a yielding surface, with ten thousand sharp wedges packed
close together and driven inwards by incessant blows, sometimes one
I do believe, her though I know she lies,
looky yonder!” It was a steamboat that had killed herself on a rock. We
That she might think me some untutored youth,
wedge being struck, and then another with greater force.
was drifting straight down for her. The lightning showed her very
What checks the natural tendency of each species to increase in number
Unlearned in the world’s false subtleties.
distinct. She was leaning over, with part of her upper deck above
is most obscure. Look at the most vigorous species; by as much as it
water, and you could see every little chimbly-guy clean and clear, and
Thus vainly thinking that she thinks me young,
Although she knows my days are past the best,
a chair by the big bell, with an old slouch hat hanging on the back of
swarms in numbers, by so much will its tendency to increase be still
Well, it being away in the night and stormy, and all so
Simply I credit her false-speaking tongue;
further increased. We know not exactly what the checks are in even one
mysterious-like, I felt just the way any other boy would a felt when I
single instance. Nor will this surprise any one who reflects how
On both sides thus is simple truth suppressed.
But wherefore says she not she is unjust?
see that wreck laying there so mournful and lonesome in the middle of
ignorant we are on this head, even in regard to mankind, so
the river. I wanted to get aboard of her and slink around a little, and
And wherefore say not I that I am old?
incomparably better known than any other animal. This subject has been
O love’s best habit is in seeming trust,
see what there was there. So I says:
ably treated by several authors, and I shall, in my future work,
But Jim was dead against it at first. He says:
And age in love loves not to have years told.
discuss some of the checks at considerable length, more especially in
Therefore I lie with her, and she with me,
“I doan’ want to go fool’n ’long er no wrack. We’s doin’ blame’ well,
regard to the feral animals of South America. Here I will make only a
And in our faults by lies we flattered be.
few remarks, just to recall to the reader’s mind some of the chief
en we better let blame’ well alone, as de good book says. Like as not
O call not me to justify the wrong,
points. Eggs or very young animals seem generally to suffer most, but
dey’s a watchman on dat wrack.”
this is not invariably the case. With plants there is a vast
“Watchman your grandmother,” I says; “there ain’t nothing to watch but
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart,
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue,
destruction of seeds, but, from some observations which I have made, I
the texas and the pilot-house; and do you reckon anybody’s going to
resk his life for a texas and a pilot-house such a night as this, when
Use power with power, and slay me not by art,
believe that it is the seedlings which suffer most from germinating in
Tell me thou lov’st elsewhere; but in my sight,
it’s likely to break up and wash off down the river any minute?” Jim
ground already thickly stocked with other plants. Seedlings, also, are
Dear heart forbear to glance thine eye aside,
couldn’t say nothing to that, so he didn’t try. “And besides,” I says,
destroyed in vast numbers by various enemies; for instance, on a piece
“we might borrow something worth having out of the captain’s stateroom.
What need’st thou wound with cunning when thy might
of ground three feet long and two wide, dug and cleared, and where
there could be no choking from other plants, I marked all the seedlings
Seegars, _I_ bet you—and cost five cents apiece, solid cash. Steamboat
Is more than my o’erpressed defence can bide?
of our native weeds as they came up, and out of the 357 no less than
Let me excuse thee, ah my love well knows,
captains is always rich, and get sixty dollars a month, and _they_
295 were destroyed, chiefly by slugs and insects. If turf which has
don’t care a cent what a thing costs, you know, long as they want it.
Her pretty looks have been mine enemies,
And therefore from my face she turns my foes,
Stick a candle in your pocket; I can’t rest, Jim, till we give her a
long been mown, and the case would be the same with turf closely
That they elsewhere might dart their injuries:
rummaging. Do you reckon Tom Sawyer would ever go by this thing? Not
browsed by quadrupeds, be let to grow,
Yet do not so, but since I am near slain,
for pie, he wouldn’t. He’d call it an adventure—that’s what he’d call
the more vigorous plants gradually kill the less vigorous, though fully
it; and he’d land on that wreck if it was his last act. And wouldn’t he
Kill me outright with looks, and rid my pain.
grown, plants: thus out of twenty species growing on a little plot of
throw style into it?—wouldn’t he spread himself, nor nothing? Why,
turf (three feet by four) nine species perished from the other species
Be wise as thou art cruel, do not press
being allowed to grow up freely.
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain:
you’d think it was Christopher C’lumbus discovering Kingdom-Come. I
Lest sorrow lend me words and words express,
Jim he grumbled a little, but give in. He said we mustn’t talk any more
The amount of food for each species of course gives the extreme limit
to which each can increase; but very frequently it is not the obtaining
The manner of my pity-wanting pain.
than we could help, and then talk mighty low. The lightning showed us
If I might teach thee wit better it were,
the wreck again just in time, and we fetched the stabboard derrick, and
food, but the serving as prey to other animals, which determines the
The deck was high out here. We went sneaking down the slope of it to
average numbers of a species. Thus, there seems to be little doubt that
Though not to love, yet love to tell me so,
labboard, in the dark, towards the texas, feeling our way slow with our
As testy sick men when their deaths be near,
the stock of partridges, grouse, and hares on any large estate depends
feet, and spreading our hands out to fend off the guys, for it was so
chiefly on the destruction of vermin. If not one head of game were shot
No news but health from their physicians know.
dark we couldn’t see no sign of them. Pretty soon we struck the forward
during the next twenty years in England, and, at the same time, if no
For if I should despair I should grow mad,
And in my madness might speak ill of thee,
end of the skylight, and clumb on to it; and the next step fetched us
vermin were destroyed, there would, in all probability, be less game
than at present, although hundreds of thousands of game animals are now
in front of the captain’s door, which was open, and by Jimminy, away
Now this ill-wresting world is grown so bad,
Mad slanderers by mad ears believed be.
annually killed. On the other hand, in some cases, as with the elephant
down through the texas-hall we see a light! and all in the same second
That I may not be so, nor thou belied,
and rhinoceros, none are destroyed by beasts of prey: even the tiger in
we seem to hear low voices in yonder!
Jim whispered and said he was feeling powerful sick, and told me to
India most rarely dares to attack a young elephant protected by its
Bear thine eyes straight, though thy proud heart go wide.
come along. I says, all right, and was going to start for the raft; but
Climate plays an important part in determining the average numbers of a
In faith I do not love thee with mine eyes,
species, and periodical seasons of extreme cold or drought, I believe
For they in thee a thousand errors note,
just then I heard a voice wail out and say:
“Oh, please don’t, boys; I swear I won’t ever tell!”
But ’tis my heart that loves what they despise,
to be the most effective of all checks. I estimated that the winter of
1854-55 destroyed four-fifths of the birds in my own grounds; and this
Another voice said, pretty loud:
Who in despite of view is pleased to dote.
Nor are mine ears with thy tongue’s tune delighted,
“It’s a lie, Jim Turner. You’ve acted this way before. You always want
is a tremendous destruction, when we remember that ten per cent. is an
extraordinarily severe mortality from epidemics with man. The action of
Nor tender feeling to base touches prone,
more’n your share of the truck, and you’ve always got it, too, because
you’ve swore ’t if you didn’t you’d tell. But this time you’ve said it
Nor taste, nor smell, desire to be invited
climate seems at first sight to be quite independent of the struggle
for existence; but in so far as climate chiefly acts in reducing food,
jest one time too many. You’re the meanest, treacherousest hound in
To any sensual feast with thee alone:
it brings on the most severe struggle between the individuals, whether
By this time Jim was gone for the raft. I was just a-biling with
But my five wits, nor my five senses can
of the same or of distinct species, which subsist on the same kind of
Dissuade one foolish heart from serving thee,
curiosity; and I says to myself, Tom Sawyer wouldn’t back out now, and
so I won’t either; I’m a-going to see what’s going on here. So I
Who leaves unswayed the likeness of a man,
food. Even when climate, for instance extreme
dropped on my hands and knees in the little passage, and crept aft in
cold, acts directly, it will be the least vigorous, or those which have
Thy proud heart’s slave and vassal wretch to be:
got least food through the advancing winter, which will suffer most.
the dark till there warn’t but one stateroom betwixt me and the
Only my plague thus far I count my gain,
That she that makes me sin, awards me pain.
When we travel from south to north, or from a damp region to a dry, we
cross-hall of the texas. Then in there I see a man stretched on the
floor and tied hand and foot, and two men standing over him, and one of
invariably see some species gradually getting rarer and rarer, and
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
finally disappearing; and the change of climate being conspicuous, we
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving,
them had a dim lantern in his hand, and the other one had a pistol.
are tempted to attribute the whole effect to its direct action. But
This one kept pointing the pistol at the man’s head on the floor, and
O but with mine, compare thou thine own state,
And thou shalt find it merits not reproving,
“I’d _like_ to! And I orter, too—a mean skunk!”
this is a very false view: we forget that each species, even where it
The man on the floor would shrivel up and say, “Oh, please don’t, Bill;
most abounds, is constantly suffering enormous destruction at some
Or if it do, not from those lips of thine,
That have profaned their scarlet ornaments,
And every time he said that the man with the lantern would laugh and
period of its life, from enemies or from competitors for the same place
“’Deed you _ain’t!_ You never said no truer thing ’n that, you bet
and food; and if these enemies or competitors be in the least degree
And sealed false bonds of love as oft as mine,
you.” And once he said: “Hear him beg! and yit if we hadn’t got the
favoured by any slight change of climate, they will increase in
Robbed others’ beds’ revenues of their rents.
numbers, and, as each area is already fully stocked with inhabitants,
best of him and tied him he’d a killed us both. And what _for?_ Jist
Be it lawful I love thee as thou lov’st those,
for noth’n. Jist because we stood on our _rights_—that’s what for. But
the other species will decrease. When we travel southward and see a
Whom thine eyes woo as mine importune thee,
species decreasing in numbers, we may feel sure that the cause lies
Root pity in thy heart that when it grows,
I lay you ain’t a-goin’ to threaten nobody any more, Jim Turner. Put
Thy pity may deserve to pitied be.
quite as much in other species being favoured, as in this one being
“I don’t want to, Jake Packard. I’m for killin’ him—and didn’t he kill
hurt. So it is when we travel northward, but in a somewhat lesser
If thou dost seek to have what thou dost hide,
old Hatfield jist the same way—and don’t he deserve it?”
“But I don’t _want_ him killed, and I’ve got my reasons for it.”
degree, for the number of species of all kinds, and therefore of
By self-example mayst thou be denied.
“Bless yo’ heart for them words, Jake Packard! I’ll never forgit you
competitors, decreases northwards; hence in going northward, or in
Lo as a careful huswife runs to catch,
long’s I live!” says the man on the floor, sort of blubbering.
ascending a mountain, we far oftener meet with stunted forms, due to
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe and makes all swift dispatch
Packard didn’t take no notice of that, but hung up his lantern on a
the _directly_ injurious action of climate, than we do in proceeding
nail and started towards where I was there in the dark, and motioned
southwards or in descending a mountain. When we reach the Arctic
In pursuit of the thing she would have stay:
Bill to come. I crawfished as fast as I could about two yards, but the
regions, or snow-capped summits, or absolute deserts, the struggle for
Whilst her neglected child holds her in chase,
Cries to catch her whose busy care is bent,
life is almost exclusively with the elements.
boat slanted so that I couldn’t make very good time; so to keep from
To follow that which flies before her face:
That climate acts in main part indirectly by favouring other species,
getting run over and catched I crawled into a stateroom on the upper
side. The man came a-pawing along in the dark, and when Packard got to
we may clearly see in the prodigious number of plants in our gardens
Not prizing her poor infant’s discontent;
So run’st thou after that which flies from thee,
And in he come, and Bill after him. But before they got in I was up in
which can perfectly well endure our climate, but which never become
naturalised, for they cannot compete with our native plants, nor resist
Whilst I thy babe chase thee afar behind,
the upper berth, cornered, and sorry I come. Then they stood there,
with their hands on the ledge of the berth, and talked. I couldn’t see
destruction by our native animals.
But if thou catch thy hope turn back to me:
them, but I could tell where they was by the whisky they’d been having.
And play the mother’s part, kiss me, be kind.
When a species, owing to highly favourable circumstances, increases
inordinately in numbers in a small tract, epidemics—at least, this
So will I pray that thou mayst have thy Will,
I was glad I didn’t drink whisky; but it wouldn’t made much difference
If thou turn back and my loud crying still.
seems generally to occur with our game animals—often ensue: and here we
anyway, because most of the time they couldn’t a treed me because I
Two loves I have, of comfort and despair,
have a limiting check independent of the struggle for life. But even
didn’t breathe. I was too scared. And, besides, a body _couldn’t_
some of these so-called epidemics appear to be due to parasitic worms,
Which, like two spirits, do suggest me still:
breathe and hear such talk. They talked low and earnest. Bill wanted to
The better angel is a man right fair,
“He’s said he’ll tell, and he will. If we was to give both our shares
which have from some cause, possibly in part through facility of
to him _now_ it wouldn’t make no difference after the row and the way
diffusion amongst the crowded animals, been disproportionably favoured:
The worser spirit a woman coloured ill.
we’ve served him. Shore’s you’re born, he’ll turn State’s evidence; now
To win me soon to hell my female evil
and here comes in a sort of struggle between the parasite and its prey.
Tempteth my better angel from my side,
On the other hand, in many cases, a large stock of individuals of the
you hear _me_. I’m for putting him out of his troubles.”
same species, relatively to the numbers of its enemies, is absolutely
And would corrupt my saint to be a devil,
“So’m I,” says Packard, very quiet.
“Blame it, I’d sorter begun to think you wasn’t. Well, then, that’s all
Wooing his purity with her foul pride.
necessary for its preservation. Thus we can easily raise plenty of corn
“Hold on a minute; I hain’t had my say yit. You listen to me.
and rape-seed, etc., in our fields, because the seeds are in great
And whether that my angel be turned fiend
Shooting’s good, but there’s quieter ways if the thing’s _got_ to be
excess compared with the number of birds which feed on them; nor can
Suspect I may, yet not directly tell;
done. But what _I_ say is this: it ain’t good sense to go court’n
But being both from me both to each friend,
the birds, though having a superabundance of food at this one season,
I guess one angel in another’s hell.
around after a halter if you can git at what you’re up to in some way
increase in number proportionally to the supply of seed, as their
that’s jist as good and at the same time don’t bring you into no resks.
Yet this shall I ne’er know, but live in doubt,
numbers are checked during winter: but any one who has tried, knows how
Till my bad angel fire my good one out.
“You bet it is. But how you goin’ to manage it this time?”
troublesome it is to get seed from a few wheat or other such plants in
Those lips that Love’s own hand did make,
a garden; I have in this case lost every single seed. This view of the
“Well, my idea is this: we’ll rustle around and gather up whatever
Breathed forth the sound that said ‘I hate’,
pickins we’ve overlooked in the staterooms, and shove for shore and
necessity of a large stock of the same species for its preservation,
explains, I believe, some singular facts in nature, such as that of
hide the truck. Then we’ll wait. Now I say it ain’t a-goin’ to be
To me that languished for her sake:
But when she saw my woeful state,
very rare plants being sometimes extremely abundant in the few spots
more’n two hours befo’ this wrack breaks up and washes off down the
where they do occur; and that of some social plants being social, that
river. See? He’ll be drownded, and won’t have nobody to blame for it
Straight in her heart did mercy come,
but his own self. I reckon that’s a considerble sight better ’n killin’
Chiding that tongue that ever sweet,
is, abounding in individuals, even on the extreme confines of their
range. For in such cases, we may believe, that a plant could exist only
Was used in giving gentle doom:
of him. I’m unfavorable to killin’ a man as long as you can git aroun’
where the conditions of its life were so favourable that many could
it; it ain’t good sense, it ain’t good morals. Ain’t I right?”
And taught it thus anew to greet:
‘I hate’ she altered with an end,
“Yes, I reck’n you are. But s’pose she _don’t_ break up and wash off?”
exist together, and thus save each other from utter destruction. I
“Well, we can wait the two hours anyway and see, can’t we?”
That followed it as gentle day,
should add that the good effects of frequent intercrossing, and the ill
of close interbreeding, probably come into play in some of these cases;
Doth follow night who like a fiend
“All right, then; come along.”
So they started, and I lit out, all in a cold sweat, and scrambled
but on this intricate subject I will not here enlarge.
From heaven to hell is flown away.
Many cases are on record showing how complex and unexpected are the
forward. It was dark as pitch there; but I said, in a kind of a coarse
‘I hate’, from hate away she threw,
whisper, “Jim!” and he answered up, right at my elbow, with a sort of a
And saved my life saying ‘not you’.
checks and relations between organic beings, which have to struggle
“Quick, Jim, it ain’t no time for fooling around and moaning; there’s a
Poor soul the centre of my sinful earth,
together in the same country. I will give only a single instance,
which, though a simple one, has interested me. In Staffordshire, on the
gang of murderers in yonder, and if we don’t hunt up their boat and set
My sinful earth these rebel powers array,
her drifting down the river so these fellows can’t get away from the
Why dost thou pine within and suffer dearth
estate of a relation where I had ample means of investigation, there
wreck there’s one of ’em going to be in a bad fix. But if we find their
Painting thy outward walls so costly gay?
was a large and extremely barren heath, which had never been touched by
boat we can put _all_ of ’em in a bad fix—for the Sheriff ’ll get ’em.
Why so large cost having so short a lease,
the hand of man; but several hundred acres of exactly the same nature
Dost thou upon thy fading mansion spend?
had been enclosed twenty-five years previously and planted with Scotch
Quick—hurry! I’ll hunt the labboard side, you hunt the stabboard. You
“Oh, my lordy, lordy! _Raf’?_ Dey ain’ no raf’ no mo’; she done broke
fir. The change in the native vegetation of the planted part of the
Shall worms inheritors of this excess
Eat up thy charge? is this thy body’s end?
heath was most remarkable, more than is generally seen in passing from
loose en gone I—en here we is!”
Well, I catched my breath and most fainted. Shut up on a wreck with
Then soul live thou upon thy servant’s loss,
one quite different soil to another: not only the proportional numbers
And let that pine to aggravate thy store;
such a gang as that! But it warn’t no time to be sentimentering. We’d
of the heath-plants were wholly changed, but twelve species of plants
(not counting grasses and carices) flourished in the plantations, which
Buy terms divine in selling hours of dross;
_got_ to find that boat now—had to have it for ourselves. So we went
could not be found on the heath. The effect on the insects must have
Within be fed, without be rich no more,
a-quaking and shaking down the stabboard side, and slow work it was,
So shall thou feed on death, that feeds on men,
too—seemed a week before we got to the stern. No sign of a boat. Jim
been still greater, for six insectivorous birds were very common in the
plantations, which were not to be seen on the heath; and the heath was
said he didn’t believe he could go any further—so scared he hadn’t
And death once dead, there’s no more dying then.
frequented by two or three distinct insectivorous birds. Here we see
hardly any strength left, he said. But I said, come on, if we get left
My love is as a fever longing still,
on this wreck we are in a fix, sure. So on we prowled again. We struck
how potent has been the effect of the introduction of a single tree,
For that which longer nurseth the disease,
Feeding on that which doth preserve the ill,
nothing whatever else having been done, with the exception that the
for the stern of the texas, and found it, and then scrabbled along
forwards on the skylight, hanging on from shutter to shutter, for the
Th’ uncertain sickly appetite to please:
land had been enclosed, so that cattle could not enter. But how
My reason the physician to my love,
important an element enclosure is, I plainly saw near Farnham, in
edge of the skylight was in the water. When we got pretty close to the
Angry that his prescriptions are not kept
cross-hall door, there was the skiff, sure enough! I could just barely
Surrey. Here there are extensive heaths, with a few clumps of old
see her. I felt ever so thankful. In another second I would a been
Hath left me, and I desperate now approve,
Scotch firs on the distant hill-tops: within the last ten years large
Desire is death, which physic did except.
spaces have been enclosed, and self-sown firs are now springing up in
aboard of her, but just then the door opened. One of the men stuck his
head out only about a couple of foot from me, and I thought I was gone;
Past cure I am, now reason is past care,
multitudes, so close together that all cannot live.
but he jerked it in again, and says:
When I ascertained that these young trees had not been sown or planted,
And frantic-mad with evermore unrest,
My thoughts and my discourse as mad men’s are,
I was so much surprised at their numbers that I went to several points
“Heave that blame lantern out o’ sight, Bill!”
of view, whence I could examine hundreds of acres of the unenclosed
At random from the truth vainly expressed.
He flung a bag of something into the boat, and then got in himself and
For I have sworn thee fair, and thought thee bright,
heath, and literally I could not see a single Scotch fir, except the
set down. It was Packard. Then Bill _he_ come out and got in. Packard
old planted clumps. But on looking closely between the stems of the
Who art as black as hell, as dark as night.
I couldn’t hardly hang on to the shutters, I was so weak. But Bill
“Hold on—’d you go through him?”
O me! what eyes hath love put in my head,
heath, I found a multitude of seedlings and little trees, which had
been perpetually browsed down by the cattle. In one square yard, at a
Which have no correspondence with true sight,
“No. So he’s got his share o’ the cash yet.”
Or if they have, where is my judgement fled,
“Well, then, come along; no use to take truck and leave money.”
point some hundred yards distant from one of the old clumps, I counted
That censures falsely what they see aright?
thirty-two little trees; and one of them, judging from the rings of
“Say, won’t he suspicion what we’re up to?”
“Maybe he won’t. But we got to have it anyway. Come along.”
growth, had during twenty-six years tried to raise its head above the
If that be fair whereon my false eyes dote,
The door slammed to because it was on the careened side; and in a half
What means the world to say it is not so?
stems of the heath, and had failed. No wonder that, as soon as the land
was enclosed, it became thickly clothed with vigorously growing young
If it be not, then love doth well denote,
second I was in the boat, and Jim come tumbling after me. I out with my
knife and cut the rope, and away we went!
firs. Yet the heath was so extremely barren and so extensive that no
Love’s eye is not so true as all men’s: no,
one would ever have imagined that cattle would have so closely and
How can it? O how can love’s eye be true,
We didn’t touch an oar, and we didn’t speak nor whisper, nor hardly
effectually searched it for food.
That is so vexed with watching and with tears?
even breathe. We went gliding swift along, dead silent, past the tip of
No marvel then though I mistake my view,
the paddle-box, and past the stern; then in a second or two more we was
Here we see that cattle absolutely determine the existence of the
Scotch fir; but in several parts of the world insects determine the
a hundred yards below the wreck, and the darkness soaked her up, every
The sun it self sees not, till heaven clears.
existence of cattle. Perhaps Paraguay offers the most curious instance
last sign of her, and we was safe, and knowed it.
O cunning love, with tears thou keep’st me blind,
of this; for here neither cattle nor horses nor dogs have ever run
When we was three or four hundred yards down-stream we see the lantern
Lest eyes well-seeing thy foul faults should find.
Canst thou O cruel, say I love thee not,
show like a little spark at the texas door for a second, and we knowed
wild, though they swarm southward and northward in a feral state; and
Azara and Rengger have shown that this is caused by the greater number
by that that the rascals had missed their boat, and was beginning to
When I against my self with thee partake?
Do I not think on thee when I forgot
understand that they was in just as much trouble now as Jim Turner was.
in Paraguay of a certain fly, which lays its eggs in the navels of
these animals when first born. The increase of these flies, numerous as
Am of my self, all-tyrant, for thy sake?
Then Jim manned the oars, and we took out after our raft. Now was the
they are, must be habitually checked by some means, probably by birds.
first time that I begun to worry about the men—I reckon I hadn’t had
Who hateth thee that I do call my friend,
time to before. I begun to think how dreadful it was, even for
On whom frown’st thou that I do fawn upon,
Hence, if certain insectivorous birds (whose numbers are probably
regulated by hawks or beasts of prey) were to increase in Paraguay, the
Nay if thou lour’st on me do I not spend
murderers, to be in such a fix. I says to myself, there ain’t no
telling but I might come to be a murderer myself yet, and then how
flies would decrease—then cattle and horses would become feral, and
Revenge upon my self with present moan?
What merit do I in my self respect,
this would certainly greatly alter (as
would _I_ like it? So says I to Jim:
That is so proud thy service to despise,
“The first light we see we’ll land a hundred yards below it or above
indeed I have observed in parts of South America) the vegetation: this
again would largely affect the insects; and this, as we just have seen
When all my best doth worship thy defect,
it, in a place where it’s a good hiding-place for you and the skiff,
and then I’ll go and fix up some kind of a yarn, and get somebody to go
in Staffordshire, the insectivorous birds, and so onwards in
Commanded by the motion of thine eyes?
for that gang and get them out of their scrape, so they can be hung
ever-increasing circles of complexity. We began this series by
But love hate on for now I know thy mind,
But that idea was a failure; for pretty soon it begun to storm again,
insectivorous birds, and we have ended with them. Not that in nature
Those that can see thou lov’st, and I am blind.
the relations can ever be as simple as this. Battle within battle must
O from what power hast thou this powerful might,
and this time worse than ever. The rain poured down, and never a light
ever be recurring with varying success; and yet in the long-run the
With insufficiency my heart to sway,
showed; everybody in bed, I reckon. We boomed along down the river,
watching for lights and watching for our raft. After a long time the
To make me give the lie to my true sight,
forces are so nicely balanced, that the face of nature remains uniform
rain let up, but the clouds stayed, and the lightning kept whimpering,
for long periods of time, though assuredly the merest trifle would
And swear that brightness doth not grace the day?
often give the victory to one organic being over another. Nevertheless
Whence hast thou this becoming of things ill,
and by-and-by a flash showed us a black thing ahead, floating, and we
It was the raft, and mighty glad was we to get aboard of it again. We
That in the very refuse of thy deeds,
so profound is our ignorance, and so high our presumption, that we
seen a light now away down to the right, on shore. So I said I would go
There is such strength and warrantise of skill,
marvel when we hear of the extinction of an organic being; and as we do
for it. The skiff was half full of plunder which that gang had stole
not see the cause, we invoke cataclysms to desolate the world, or
That in my mind thy worst all best exceeds?
Who taught thee how to make me love thee more,
there on the wreck. We hustled it on to the raft in a pile, and I told
invent laws on the duration of the forms of life!
The more I hear and see just cause of hate?
Jim to float along down, and show a light when he judged he had gone
I am tempted to give one more instance showing how plants and animals,
O though I love what others do abhor,
most remote in the scale of nature, are bound together by a web of
about two mile, and keep it burning till I come; then I manned my oars
and shoved for the light. As I got down towards it, three or four more
complex relations. I shall hereafter have occasion to show that the
With others thou shouldst not abhor my state.
exotic Lobelia fulgens, in this part of England, is never visited by
If thy unworthiness raised love in me,
showed—up on a hillside. It was a village. I closed in above the shore
insects, and consequently, from its peculiar structure, never can set a
light, and laid on my oars and floated. As I went by, I see it was a
More worthy I to be beloved of thee.
seed. Many of our orchidaceous plants absolutely require the visits of
Love is too young to know what conscience is,
lantern hanging on the jackstaff of a double-hull ferry-boat. I skimmed
moths to remove their pollen-masses and thus to fertilise them. I have,
Yet who knows not conscience is born of love?
around for the watchman, a-wondering whereabouts he slept; and
by-and-by I found him roosting on the bitts, forward, with his head
Then gentle cheater urge not my amiss,
also, reason to believe that humble-bees are indispensable to the
down between his knees. I gave his shoulder two or three little shoves,
Lest guilty of my faults thy sweet self prove.
fertilisation of the heartsease (Viola tricolor), for other bees do not
visit this flower. From experiments which I have tried, I have found
He stirred up, in a kind of a startlish way; but when he see it was only
For thou betraying me, I do betray
that the visits of bees, if not indispensable, are at least highly
me, he took a good gap and stretch, and then he says:
My nobler part to my gross body’s treason,
beneficial to the fertilisation of our clovers; but humble-bees alone
My soul doth tell my body that he may,
“Hello, what’s up? Don’t cry, bub. What’s the trouble?”
visit the common red clover (Trifolium pratense), as other bees cannot
Triumph in love, flesh stays no farther reason,
“Oh, dang it now, _don’t_ take on so; we all has to have our troubles,
and this’n ’ll come out all right. What’s the matter with ’em?”
But rising at thy name doth point out thee,
reach the nectar. Hence I have very little doubt, that if the whole
As his triumphant prize, proud of this pride,
extinct or very rare in England, the heartsease and red clover would
“They’re—they’re—are you the watchman of the boat?”
He is contented thy poor drudge to be,
become very rare, or wholly disappear. The number of humble-bees in any
“Yes,” he says, kind of pretty-well-satisfied like. “I’m the captain
and the owner and the mate and the pilot and watchman and head
district depends in a great degree on the number of field-mice, which
To stand in thy affairs, fall by thy side.
destroy their combs and nests; and Mr. H. Newman, who has long attended
deck-hand; and sometimes I’m the freight and passengers. I ain’t as
No want of conscience hold it that I call,
rich as old Jim Hornback, and I can’t be so blame’ generous and good to
Her love, for whose dear love I rise and fall.
to the habits of humble-bees, believes that “more than two thirds of
Tom, Dick and Harry as what he is, and slam around money the way he
them are thus destroyed all over England.” Now the number of mice is
In loving thee thou know’st I am forsworn,
does; but I’ve told him a many a time ’t I wouldn’t trade places with
But thou art twice forsworn to me love swearing,
largely dependent, as every one knows, on the number of cats; and Mr.
In act thy bed-vow broke and new faith torn,
him; for, says I, a sailor’s life’s the life for me, and I’m derned if
Newman says, “Near villages and small towns I have found the nests of
humble-bees more numerous than elsewhere, which I attribute to the
In vowing new hate after new love bearing:
_I’d_ live two mile out o’ town, where there ain’t nothing ever goin’
on, not for all his spondulicks and as much more on top of it. Says I—”
number of cats that destroy the mice.” Hence it is quite credible that
But why of two oaths’ breach do I accuse thee,
“They’re in an awful peck of trouble, and—”
the presence of a feline animal in large numbers in a district might
When I break twenty? I am perjured most,
“Why, pap and mam and sis and Miss Hooker; and if you’d take your
For all my vows are oaths but to misuse thee:
determine, through the intervention first of mice and then of bees, the
“What, you don’t mean the _Walter Scott?_”
And all my honest faith in thee is lost.
frequency of certain flowers in that district!
“Good land! what are they doin’ _there_, for gracious sakes?”
For I have sworn deep oaths of thy deep kindness:
In the case of every species, many different checks, acting at
different periods of life, and during different seasons or years,
“Well, they didn’t go there a-purpose.”
Oaths of thy love, thy truth, thy constancy,
“I bet they didn’t! Why, great goodness, there ain’t no chance for ’em
And to enlighten thee gave eyes to blindness,
probably come into play; some one check or some few being generally the
most potent, but all concurring in determining the average number or
if they don’t git off mighty quick! Why, how in the nation did they
Or made them swear against the thing they see.
even the existence of the species. In some cases it can be shown that
“Easy enough. Miss Hooker was a-visiting up there to the town—”
For I have sworn thee fair: more perjured I,
To swear against the truth so foul a lie.
widely-different checks act on the same species in different districts.
“She was a-visiting there at Booth’s Landing, and just in the edge of
Cupid laid by his brand and fell asleep,
the evening she started over with her nigger woman in the horse-ferry
When we look at the plants and bushes clothing an entangled bank, we
A maid of Dian’s this advantage found,
are tempted to attribute their proportional numbers and kinds to what
to stay all night at her friend’s house, Miss What-you-may-call-her I
disremember her name—and they lost their steering-oar, and swung around
we call chance. But how false a view is this! Every one has heard that
And his love-kindling fire did quickly steep
and went a-floating down, stern first, about two mile, and
when an American forest is cut down, a very different vegetation
In a cold valley-fountain of that ground:
saddle-baggsed on the wreck, and the ferryman and the nigger woman and
Which borrowed from this holy fire of Love,
springs up; but it has been observed that the trees now growing on the
the horses was all lost, but Miss Hooker she made a grab and got aboard
ancient Indian mounds, in the Southern United States, display the same
A dateless lively heat still to endure,
the wreck. Well, about an hour after dark we come along down in our
And grew a seething bath which yet men prove,
beautiful diversity and proportion of kinds as in the surrounding
trading-scow, and it was so dark we didn’t notice the wreck till we was
virgin forests. What a struggle between the several kinds of trees
Against strange maladies a sovereign cure:
must here have gone on during long centuries, each annually scattering
But at my mistress’ eye Love’s brand new-fired,
right on it; and so _we_ saddle-baggsed; but all of us was saved but
The boy for trial needs would touch my breast,
its seeds by the thousand; what war between insect and insect—between
Bill Whipple—and oh, he _was_ the best cretur!—I most wish’t it had
“My George! It’s the beatenest thing I ever struck. And _then_ what did
insects, snails, and other animals with birds and beasts of prey—all
I sick withal the help of bath desired,
And thither hied a sad distempered guest.
striving to increase, and all feeding on each other or on the trees or
“Well, we hollered and took on, but it’s so wide there we couldn’t make
their seeds and seedlings, or on the other plants which first clothed
nobody hear. So pap said somebody got to get ashore and get help
But found no cure, the bath for my help lies,
Where Cupid got new fire; my mistress’ eyes.
the ground and thus checked the growth of the trees! Throw up a handful
somehow. I was the only one that could swim, so I made a dash for it,
of feathers, and all must fall to the ground according to definite
and Miss Hooker she said if I didn’t strike help sooner, come here and
The little Love-god lying once asleep,
Laid by his side his heart-inflaming brand,
hunt up her uncle, and he’d fix the thing. I made the land about a mile
laws; but how simple is this problem compared to the action and
below, and been fooling along ever since, trying to get people to do
Whilst many nymphs that vowed chaste life to keep,
reaction of the innumerable plants and animals which have determined,
in the course of centuries, the proportional numbers and kinds of trees
Came tripping by, but in her maiden hand,
something, but they said, ‘What, in such a night and such a current?
There ain’t no sense in it; go for the steam ferry.’ Now if you’ll go
The fairest votary took up that fire,
now growing on the old Indian ruins!
The dependency of one organic being on another, as of a parasite on its
“By Jackson, I’d _like_ to, and, blame it, I don’t know but I will; but
Which many legions of true hearts had warmed,
And so the general of hot desire,
prey, lies generally between beings remote in the scale of nature. This
who in the dingnation’s a-going’ to _pay_ for it? Do you reckon your
Was sleeping by a virgin hand disarmed.
is often the case with those which may strictly be said to struggle
“Why _that’s_ all right. Miss Hooker she tole me, _particular_, that
“Great guns! is _he_ her uncle? Looky here, you break for that light
with each other for existence, as in the case of locusts and
This brand she quenched in a cool well by,
over yonder-way, and turn out west when you git there, and about a
Which from Love’s fire took heat perpetual,
grass-feeding quadrupeds. But the struggle almost invariably will be
Growing a bath and healthful remedy,
most severe between the individuals of the same species, for they
quarter of a mile out you’ll come to the tavern; tell ’em to dart you
For men diseased; but I, my mistress’ thrall,
frequent the same districts, require the same food, and are exposed to
out to Jim Hornback’s, and he’ll foot the bill. And don’t you fool
Came there for cure and this by that I prove,
the same dangers. In the case of varieties of the same species, the
around any, because he’ll want to know the news. Tell him I’ll have his
niece all safe before he can get to town. Hump yourself, now; I’m
Love’s fire heats water, water cools not love.
struggle will generally be almost equally severe, and we sometimes see
the contest soon decided: for instance, if several varieties of wheat
Scene I. Rossillon. A room in the Countess’s palace.
a-going up around the corner here to roust out my engineer.”
be sown together, and the mixed seed be resown, some of the varieties
Scene II. Paris. A room in the King’s palace.
I struck for the light, but as soon as he turned the corner I went back
Scene III. Rossillon. A Room in the Palace.
and got into my skiff and bailed her out, and then pulled up shore in
which best suit the soil or climate, or are naturally the most fertile,
will beat the others and so yield more seed, and will consequently in a
the easy water about six hundred yards, and tucked myself in among some
Scene I. Paris. A room in the King’s palace.
few years quite supplant the other varieties. To keep up a mixed stock
Scene II. Rossillon. A room in the Countess’s palace.
woodboats; for I couldn’t rest easy till I could see the ferry-boat
of even such extremely close varieties as the variously coloured
Scene III. Paris. The King’s palace.
start. But take it all around, I was feeling ruther comfortable on
sweet-peas, they must be each year harvested separately, and the seed
accounts of taking all this trouble for that gang, for not many would a
Scene IV. Paris. The King’s palace.
otherwise the weaker kinds will steadily decrease in numbers and
Scene V. Another room in the same.
done it. I wished the widow knowed about it. I judged she would be
disappear. So again with the varieties of sheep: it has been asserted
proud of me for helping these rapscallions, because rapscallions and
Scene I. Florence. A room in the Duke’s palace.
Scene II. Rossillon. A room in the Countess’s palace.
that certain mountain-varieties will starve out other
dead beats is the kind the widow and good people takes the most
mountain-varieties, so that they cannot be kept together. The same
Well, before long, here comes the wreck, dim and dusky, sliding along
Scene III. Florence. Before the Duke’s palace.
result has followed from keeping together different varieties of the
down! A kind of cold shiver went through me, and then I struck out for
Scene IV. Rossillon. A room in the Countess’s palace.
Scene V. Without the walls of Florence.
medicinal leech. It may even be doubted whether the varieties of any
her. She was very deep, and I see in a minute there warn’t much chance
one of our domestic plants or animals have so exactly the same
for anybody being alive in her. I pulled all around her and hollered a
Scene VI. Camp before Florence.
strength, habits, and constitution, that the original proportions of a
Scene VII. Florence. A room in the Widow’s house.
little, but there wasn’t any answer; all dead still. I felt a little
bit heavy-hearted about the gang, but not much, for I reckoned if they
Scene I. Without the Florentine camp.
mixed stock could be kept up for half a dozen generations, if they were
allowed to struggle together, like beings in a state of nature, and if
Scene II. Florence. A room in the Widow’s house.
Then here comes the ferry-boat; so I shoved for the middle of the river
Scene III. The Florentine camp.
the seed or young were not annually sorted.
on a long down-stream slant; and when I judged I was out of eye-reach, I
laid on my oars, and looked back and see her go and smell around the
As species of the same genus have usually, though by no means
Scene IV. Florence. A room in the Widow’s house.
invariably, some similarity in habits and constitution, and always in
wreck for Miss Hooker’s remainders, because the captain would know her
Scene V. Rossillon. A room in the Countess’s palace.
structure, the struggle will generally be more severe between species
Scene I. Marseilles. A street.
uncle Hornback would want them; and then pretty soon the ferry-boat give
it up and went for the shore, and I laid into my work and went
Scene II. Rossillon. The inner court of the Countess’s palace.
of the same genus, when they come into competition with each other,
It did seem a powerful long time before Jim’s light showed up; and when
Scene III. The same. A room in the Countess’s palace.
than between species of distinct genera. We see this in the recent
extension over parts of the United States of one species of swallow
PAROLLES, a follower of Bertram.
it did show, it looked like it was a thousand mile off. By the time I
got there the sky was beginning to get a little gray in the east; so we
Several young French Lords, that serve with Bertram in the Florentine
having caused the decrease of another species. The recent increase of
the missel-thrush in parts of Scotland has caused the decrease of the
struck for an island, and hid the raft, and sunk the skiff, and turned
RYNALDO, servant to the Countess of Rossillon.
song-thrush. How frequently we hear of one species of rat taking the
in and slept like dead people.
Clown, servant to the Countess of Rossillon.
place of another species under the most different climates! In Russia
A Page, servant to the Countess of Rossillon.
By-and-by, when we got up, we turned over the truck the gang had stole
COUNTESS OF ROSSILLON, mother to Bertram.
off of the wreck, and found boots, and blankets, and clothes, and all
the small Asiatic cockroach has everywhere driven before it its great
HELENA, a Gentlewoman protected by the Countess.
congener. One species of charlock will supplant another, and so in
sorts of other things, and a lot of books, and a spyglass, and three
boxes of seegars. We hadn’t ever been this rich before in neither of
VIOLENTA, neighbour and friend to the Widow.
other cases. We can dimly see why the competition should be most severe
between allied forms, which fill nearly the same place in the economy
MARIANA, neighbour and friend to the Widow.
our lives. The seegars was prime. We laid off all the afternoon in the
Lords attending on the KING; Officers; Soldiers, &c., French and
of nature; but probably in no one case could we precisely say why one
woods talking, and me reading the books, and having a general good
SCENE: Partly in France, and partly in Tuscany.
time. I told Jim all about what happened inside the wreck and at the
species has been victorious over another in the great battle of life.
A corollary of the highest importance may be deduced from the foregoing
ferry-boat, and I said these kinds of things was adventures; but he said
SCENE I. Rossillon. A room in the Countess’s palace.
Enter Bertram, the Countess of Rossillon, Helena, and Lafew, all in
remarks, namely, that the structure of every organic being is related,
he didn’t want no more adventures. He said that when I went in the
texas and he crawled back to get on the raft and found her gone, he
In delivering my son from me, I bury a second husband.
in the most essential yet often hidden manner, to that of all other
nearly died; because he judged it was all up with _him_, anyway it could
organic beings, with which it comes into competition for food or
And I in going, madam, weep o’er my father’s death anew; but I must
attend his majesty’s command, to whom I am now in ward, evermore in
be fixed; for if he didn’t get saved he would get drownded; and if he
residence, or from which it has to escape, or on which it preys. This
did get saved, whoever saved him would send him back home so as to get
You shall find of the king a husband, madam; you, sir, a father. He
is obvious in the structure of the teeth and talons of the tiger; and
in that of the legs and claws of the parasite which clings to the hair
that so generally is at all times good, must of necessity hold his
the reward, and then Miss Watson would sell him South, sure. Well, he
virtue to you, whose worthiness would stir it up where it wanted,
on the tiger’s body. But in the beautifully plumed seed of the
was right; he was most always right; he had an uncommon level head, for
dandelion, and in the flattened and fringed legs of the water-beetle,
rather than lack it where there is such abundance.
I read considerable to Jim about kings and dukes and earls and such,
and how gaudy they dressed, and how much style they put on, and called
the relation seems at first confined to the elements of air and water.
What hope is there of his majesty’s amendment?
He hath abandon’d his physicians, madam; under whose practices he hath
Yet the advantage of plumed seeds no doubt stands in the closest
each other your majesty, and your grace, and your lordship, and so on,
’stead of mister; and Jim’s eyes bugged out, and he was interested. He
persecuted time with hope, and finds no other advantage in the process
relation to the land being already thickly clothed by other plants; so
but only the losing of hope by time.
that the seeds may be widely distributed and fall on unoccupied ground.
“I didn’ know dey was so many un um. I hain’t hearn ’bout none un um,
skasely, but ole King Sollermun, onless you counts dem kings dat’s in a
This young gentlewoman had a father—O that “had!”, how sad a passage
In the water-beetle, the structure of its legs, so well adapted for
diving, allows it to compete with other aquatic insects, to hunt for
pack er k’yards. How much do a king git?”
’tis!—whose skill was almost as great as his honesty; had it stretch’d
so far, would have made nature immortal, and death should have play for
its own prey, and to escape serving as prey to other animals.
“Get?” I says; “why, they get a thousand dollars a month if they want
The store of nutriment laid up within the seeds of many plants seems at
lack of work. Would for the king’s sake he were living! I think it
it; they can have just as much as they want; everything belongs to
would be the death of the king’s disease.
“_Ain’_ dat gay? En what dey got to do, Huck?”
first sight to have no sort of relation to other plants. But from the
How called you the man you speak of, madam?
strong growth of young plants produced from such seeds (as peas and
“_They_ don’t do nothing! Why, how you talk! They just set around.”
“Of course it is. They just set around—except, maybe, when there’s a
beans), when sown in the midst of long grass, I suspect that the chief
He was famous, sir, in his profession, and it was his great right to be
war; then they go to the war. But other times they just lazy around; or
He was excellent indeed, madam; the king very lately spoke of him
use of the nutriment in the seed is to favour the growth of the young
seedling, whilst struggling with other plants growing vigorously all
admiringly, and mourningly; he was skilful enough to have liv’d still,
go hawking—just hawking and sp— Sh!—d’ you hear a noise?”
We skipped out and looked; but it warn’t nothing but the flutter of a
if knowledge could be set up against mortality.
Look at a plant in the midst of its range, why does it not double or
What is it, my good lord, the king languishes of?
quadruple its numbers? We know that it can perfectly well withstand a
steamboat’s wheel away down, coming around the point; so we come back.
little more heat or cold, dampness or dryness, for elsewhere it ranges
I would it were not notorious. Was this gentlewoman the daughter of
“Yes,” says I, “and other times, when things is dull, they fuss with
the parlyment; and if everybody don’t go just so he whacks their heads
into slightly hotter or colder, damper or drier districts. In this case
His sole child, my lord, and bequeathed to my overlooking. I have those
off. But mostly they hang round the harem.”
hopes of her good that her education promises her dispositions she
we can clearly see that if we wished in imagination to give the plant
the power of increasing in number, we should have to give it some
“The place where he keeps his wives. Don’t you know about the harem?
inherits, which makes fair gifts fairer; for where an unclean mind
advantage over its competitors, or over the animals which preyed on it.
carries virtuous qualities, there commendations go with pity, they are
Solomon had one; he had about a million wives.”
On the confines of its geographical range, a change of constitution
“Why, yes, dat’s so; I—I’d done forgot it. A harem’s a bo’d’n-house, I
virtues and traitors too. In her they are the better for their
reck’n. Mos’ likely dey has rackety times in de nussery. En I reck’n de
with respect to climate would clearly be an advantage to our plant; but
simpleness; she derives her honesty, and achieves her goodness.
wives quarrels considable; en dat ’crease de racket. Yit dey say
Your commendations, madam, get from her tears.
we have reason to believe that only a few plants or animals range so
’Tis the best brine a maiden can season her praise in. The remembrance
Sollermun de wises’ man dat ever live’. I doan’ take no stock in dat.
far, that they are destroyed by the rigour of the climate alone. Not
Bekase why: would a wise man want to live in de mids’ er sich a
until we reach the extreme confines of life, in the arctic regions or
of her father never approaches her heart but the tyranny of her sorrows
blim-blammin’ all de time? No—’deed he wouldn’t. A wise man ’ud take en
on the borders of an utter desert, will competition cease. The land may
takes all livelihood from her cheek. No more of this, Helena; go to, no
more, lest it be rather thought you affect a sorrow than to have.
buil’ a biler-factry; en den he could shet _down_ de biler-factry when
be extremely cold or dry, yet there will be competition between some
“Well, but he _was_ the wisest man, anyway; because the widow she told
few species, or between the individuals of the same species, for the
I do affect a sorrow indeed, but I have it too.
“I doan k’yer what de widder say, he _warn’t_ no wise man nuther. He
Hence, also, we can see that when a plant or animal is placed in a new
Moderate lamentation is the right of the dead; excessive grief the
had some er de dad-fetchedes’ ways I ever see. Does you know ’bout dat
country amongst new competitors, though the climate may be exactly the
If the living be enemy to the grief, the excess makes it soon mortal.
chile dat he ’uz gwyne to chop in two?”
same as in its former home, yet the conditions of its life will
Madam, I desire your holy wishes.
generally be changed in an essential manner. If we wished to increase
Be thou blest, Bertram, and succeed thy father
“Yes, the widow told me all about it.”
In manners, as in shape! Thy blood and virtue
its average numbers in its new home, we should have to modify it in a
“_Well_, den! Warn’ dat de beatenes’ notion in de worl’? You jes’ take
en look at it a minute. Dah’s de stump, dah—dat’s one er de women;
Contend for empire in thee, and thy goodness
different way to what we should have done in its native country; for we
Share with thy birthright! Love all, trust a few,
should have to give it some advantage over a different set of
heah’s you—dat’s de yuther one; I’s Sollermun; en dish yer dollar
It is good thus to try in our imagination to give any form some
Do wrong to none. Be able for thine enemy
bill’s de chile. Bofe un you claims it. What does I do? Does I shin
advantage over another. Probably in no single instance should we know
aroun’ mongs’ de neighbors en fine out which un you de bill _do_ b’long
Rather in power than use; and keep thy friend
Under thy own life’s key. Be check’d for silence,
what to do, so as to succeed. It will convince us of our ignorance on
to, en han’ it over to de right one, all safe en soun’, de way dat
the mutual relations of all organic beings; a conviction as necessary,
But never tax’d for speech. What heaven more will,
anybody dat had any gumption would? No; I take en whack de bill in
That thee may furnish and my prayers pluck down,
_two_, en give half un it to you, en de yuther half to de yuther woman.
as it seems to be difficult to acquire. All that we can do, is to keep
Dat’s de way Sollermun was gwyne to do wid de chile. Now I want to ast
Fall on thy head! Farewell. My lord,
steadily in mind that each organic being is striving to increase at a
you: what’s de use er dat half a bill?—can’t buy noth’n wid it. En what
’Tis an unseason’d courtier; good my lord,
ratio; that each at some period of its life, during some season of the
year, during each generation or at intervals, has to struggle for life,
Heaven bless him! Farewell, Bertram.
use is a half a chile? I wouldn’ give a dern for a million un um.”
and to suffer great destruction. When we reflect on this struggle, we
“But hang it, Jim, you’ve clean missed the point—blame it, you’ve
The best wishes that can be forg’d in your thoughts be servants to you!
[_To Helena._] Be comfortable to my mother, your mistress, and make
“Who? Me? Go ’long. Doan’ talk to _me_ ’bout yo’ pints. I reck’n I
may console ourselves with the full belief, that the war of nature is
Farewell, pretty lady, you must hold the credit of your father.
knows sense when I sees it; en dey ain’ no sense in sich doin’s as dat.
not incessant, that no fear is felt, that death is generally prompt,
and that the vigorous, the healthy, and the happy survive and multiply.
De ’spute warn’t ’bout a half a chile, de ’spute was ’bout a whole
O, were that all! I think not on my father,
Natural Selection: its power compared with man’s selection, its power
And these great tears grace his remembrance more
chile; en de man dat think he kin settle a ’spute ’bout a whole chile
Than those I shed for him. What was he like?
on characters of trifling importance, its power at all ages and on both
wid a half a chile doan’ know enough to come in out’n de rain. Doan’
talk to me ’bout Sollermun, Huck, I knows him by de back.”
I have forgot him; my imagination
sexes. Sexual Selection. On the generality of intercrosses between
Carries no favour in’t but Bertram’s.
“But I tell you you don’t get the point.”
individuals of the same species. Circumstances favourable and
I am undone: there is no living, none,
“Blame de point! I reck’n I knows what I knows. En mine you, de _real_
unfavourable to Natural Selection, namely, intercrossing, isolation,
If Bertram be away. ’Twere all one
pint is down furder—it’s down deeper. It lays in de way Sollermun was
number of individuals. Slow action. Extinction caused by Natural
Selection. Divergence of Character, related to the diversity of
That I should love a bright particular star,
raised. You take a man dat’s got on’y one or two chillen; is dat man
inhabitants of any small area, and to naturalisation. Action of Natural
gwyne to be waseful o’ chillen? No, he ain’t; he can’t ’ford it. _He_
And think to wed it, he is so above me.
In his bright radiance and collateral light
know how to value ’em. But you take a man dat’s got ’bout five million
Selection, through Divergence of Character and Extinction, on the
chillen runnin’ roun’ de house, en it’s diffunt. _He_ as soon chop a
Must I be comforted, not in his sphere.
descendants from a common parent. Explains the Grouping of all organic
How will the struggle for existence, discussed too briefly in the last
Th’ambition in my love thus plagues itself:
chile in two as a cat. Dey’s plenty mo’. A chile er two, mo’ er less,
warn’t no consekens to Sollermun, dad fatch him!”
The hind that would be mated by the lion
chapter, act in regard to variation? Can the principle of selection,
which we have seen is so potent in the hands of man, apply in nature? I
I never see such a nigger. If he got a notion in his head once, there
Must die for love. ’Twas pretty, though a plague,
warn’t no getting it out again. He was the most down on Solomon of any
To see him every hour; to sit and draw
think we shall see that it can act most effectually. Let it be borne in
mind in what an endless number of strange peculiarities our domestic
nigger I ever see. So I went to talking about other kings, and let
His arched brows, his hawking eye, his curls,
Solomon slide. I told about Louis Sixteenth that got his head cut off
In our heart’s table,—heart too capable
productions, and, in a lesser degree, those under nature, vary; and how
strong the hereditary tendency is. Under domestication, it may be truly
in France long time ago; and about his little boy the dolphin, that
Of every line and trick of his sweet favour.
would a been a king, but they took and shut him up in jail, and some
said that the whole organisation becomes in some degree plastic. Let it
But now he’s gone, and my idolatrous fancy
Must sanctify his relics. Who comes here?
be borne in mind how infinitely complex and close-fitting are the
“But some says he got out and got away, and come to America.”
“Dat’s good! But he’ll be pooty lonesome—dey ain’ no kings here, is
mutual relations of all organic beings to each other and to their
One that goes with him: I love him for his sake,
And yet I know him a notorious liar,
“Den he cain’t git no situation. What he gwyne to do?”
physical conditions of life. Can it, then, be thought improbable,
“Well, I don’t know. Some of them gets on the police, and some of them
seeing that variations useful to man have undoubtedly occurred, that
Think him a great way fool, solely a coward;
learns people how to talk French.”
other variations useful in some way to each being in the great and
Yet these fix’d evils sit so fit in him
That they take place when virtue’s steely bones
“Why, Huck, doan’ de French people talk de same way we does?”
complex battle of life, should sometimes occur in the course of
thousands of generations? If such do occur, can we doubt (remembering
Looks bleak i’ th’ cold wind: withal, full oft we see
“_No_, Jim; you couldn’t understand a word they said—not a single
that many more individuals are born than can possibly survive) that
Cold wisdom waiting on superfluous folly.
“Well, now, I be ding-busted! How do dat come?”
Are you meditating on virginity?
“_I_ don’t know; but it’s so. I got some of their jabber out of a book.
individuals having any advantage, however slight, over others, would
Ay. You have some stain of soldier in you; let me ask you a question.
have the best chance of surviving and of procreating their kind? On the
S’pose a man was to come to you and say _Polly-voo-franzy_—what would
Man is enemy to virginity; how may we barricado it against him?
“I wouldn’ think nuff’n; I’d take en bust him over de head—dat is, if
other hand, we may feel sure that any variation in the least degree
he warn’t white. I wouldn’t ’low no nigger to call me dat.”
But he assails; and our virginity, though valiant, in the defence, yet
injurious would be rigidly destroyed. This preservation of favourable
is weak. Unfold to us some warlike resistance.
“Shucks, it ain’t calling you anything. It’s only saying, do you know
variations and the rejection of injurious variations, I call Natural
Selection. Variations neither useful nor injurious would not be
“Well, den, why couldn’t he _say_ it?”
There is none. Man setting down before you will undermine you and blow
affected by natural selection, and would be left a fluctuating element,
Bless our poor virginity from underminers and blowers-up! Is there no
“Why, he _is_ a-saying it. That’s a Frenchman’s _way_ of saying it.”
military policy how virgins might blow up men?
“Well, it’s a blame ridicklous way, en I doan’ want to hear no mo’
as perhaps we see in the species called polymorphic.
’bout it. Dey ain’ no sense in it.”
Virginity being blown down, man will quicklier be blown up; marry, in
We shall best understand the probable course of natural selection by
blowing him down again, with the breach yourselves made, you lose your
“Looky here, Jim; does a cat talk like we do?”
taking the case of a country undergoing some physical change, for
city. It is not politic in the commonwealth of nature to preserve
“Does a cat talk like a cow, or a cow talk like a cat?”
instance, of climate. The proportional numbers of its inhabitants would
almost immediately undergo a change, and some species might become
“It’s natural and right for ’em to talk different from each other,
virginity. Loss of virginity is rational increase, and there was never
extinct. We may conclude, from what we have seen of the intimate and
virgin got till virginity was first lost. That you were made of is
“And ain’t it natural and right for a cat and a cow to talk different
metal to make virgins. Virginity, by being once lost, may be ten times
complex manner in which the inhabitants of each country are bound
“Well, then, why ain’t it natural and right for a _Frenchman_ to talk
together, that any change in the numerical proportions of some of the
different from us? You answer me that.”
found; by being ever kept, it is ever lost. ’Tis too cold a companion.
I will stand for’t a little, though therefore I die a virgin.
inhabitants, independently of the change of climate itself, would most
“Well, den, dey ain’t no sense in a cat talkin’ like a man. Is a cow a
There’s little can be said in’t; ’tis against the rule of nature. To
seriously affect many of the others. If the country were open on its
“No, she ain’t either of them.”
“Well, den, she ain’t got no business to talk like either one er the
speak on the part of virginity is to accuse your mothers; which is most
borders, new forms would certainly immigrate, and this also would
yuther of ’em. Is a Frenchman a man?”
infallible disobedience. He that hangs himself is a virgin: virginity
seriously disturb the relations of some of the former inhabitants. Let
murders itself, and should be buried in highways out of all sanctified
it be remembered how powerful the influence of a single introduced tree
“_Well_, den! Dad blame it, why doan’ he _talk_ like a man? You answer
limit, as a desperate offendress against nature. Virginity breeds
or mammal has been shown to be. But in the case of an island, or of a
I see it warn’t no use wasting words—you can’t learn a nigger to argue.
We judged that three nights more would fetch us to Cairo, at the bottom
country partly surrounded by barriers, into which new and better
mites, much like a cheese; consumes itself to the very paring, and so
adapted forms could not freely enter, we should then have places in the
of Illinois, where the Ohio River comes in, and that was what we was
dies with feeding his own stomach. Besides, virginity is peevish,
after. We would sell the raft and get on a steamboat and go way up the
proud, idle, made of self-love, which is the most inhibited sin in the
economy of nature which would assuredly be better filled up, if some of
the original inhabitants were in some manner modified; for, had the
canon. Keep it not; you cannot choose but lose by’t. Out with’t! Within
Ohio amongst the free States, and then be out of trouble.
Well, the second night a fog begun to come on, and we made for a
area been open to immigration, these same
the year it will make itself two, which is a goodly increase, and the
places would have been seized on by intruders. In such case, every
tow-head to tie to, for it wouldn’t do to try to run in a fog; but when
principal itself not much the worse. Away with it!
How might one do, sir, to lose it to her own liking?
slight modification, which in the course of ages chanced to arise, and
I paddled ahead in the canoe, with the line to make fast, there warn’t
anything but little saplings to tie to. I passed the line around one of
Let me see. Marry, ill, to like him that ne’er it likes. ’Tis a
which in any way favoured the individuals of any of the species, by
better adapting them to their altered conditions, would tend to be
commodity will lose the gloss with lying; the longer kept, the less
them right on the edge of the cut bank, but there was a stiff current,
preserved; and natural selection would thus have free scope for the
worth. Off with’t while ’tis vendible; answer the time of request.
and the raft come booming down so lively she tore it out by the roots
We have reason to believe, as stated in the first chapter, that a
Virginity, like an old courtier, wears her cap out of fashion, richly
and away she went. I see the fog closing down, and it made me so sick
change in the conditions of life, by specially acting on the
suited, but unsuitable, just like the brooch and the toothpick, which
and scared I couldn’t budge for most a half a minute it seemed to
me—and then there warn’t no raft in sight; you couldn’t see twenty
reproductive system, causes or increases variability; and in the
wear not now. Your date is better in your pie and your porridge than in
yards. I jumped into the canoe and run back to the stern, and grabbed
foregoing case the conditions of life are supposed to have undergone a
your cheek. And your virginity, your old virginity, is like one of our
change, and this would manifestly be favourable to natural selection,
French wither’d pears; it looks ill, it eats drily; marry, ’tis a
the paddle and set her back a stroke. But she didn’t come. I was in
such a hurry I hadn’t untied her. I got up and tried to untie her, but
by giving a better chance of profitable variations occurring; and
wither’d pear; it was formerly better; marry, yet ’tis a wither’d pear.
There shall your master have a thousand loves,
I was so excited my hands shook so I couldn’t hardly do anything with
unless profitable variations do occur, natural selection can do
As soon as I got started I took out after the raft, hot and heavy,
nothing. Not that, as I believe, any extreme amount of variability is
A mother, and a mistress, and a friend,
necessary; as man can certainly produce great results by adding up in
A phoenix, captain, and an enemy,
right down the tow-head. That was all right as far as it went, but the
A guide, a goddess, and a sovereign,
any given direction mere individual differences, so could Nature, but
tow-head warn’t sixty yards long, and the minute I flew by the foot of
far more easily, from having incomparably longer time at her disposal.
A counsellor, a traitress, and a dear:
it I shot out into the solid white fog, and hadn’t no more idea which
way I was going than a dead man.
Nor do I believe that any great physical change, as of climate, or any
His humble ambition, proud humility,
Thinks I, it won’t do to paddle; first I know I’ll run into the bank or
unusual degree of isolation to check immigration, is actually necessary
His jarring concord, and his discord dulcet,
to produce new and unoccupied places for natural selection to fill up
a tow-head or something; I got to set still and float, and yet it’s
His faith, his sweet disaster; with a world
Of pretty, fond, adoptious christendoms
by modifying and improving some of the varying inhabitants. For as all
mighty fidgety business to have to hold your hands still at such a
That blinking Cupid gossips. Now shall he—
time. I whooped and listened. Away down there somewheres I hears a
the inhabitants of each country are struggling together with nicely
balanced forces, extremely slight modifications in the structure or
I know not what he shall. God send him well!
small whoop, and up comes my spirits. I went tearing after it,
habits of one inhabitant would often give it an advantage over others;
The court’s a learning-place; and he is one.
listening sharp to hear it again. The next time it come, I see I warn’t
heading for it, but heading away to the right of it. And the next time
That wishing well had not a body in’t
and still further modifications of the same kind would often still
I was heading away to the left of it—and not gaining on it much either,
further increase the advantage. No country can be named in which all
Which might be felt, that we, the poorer born,
for I was flying around, this way and that and t’other, but it was
Whose baser stars do shut us up in wishes,
the native inhabitants are now so perfectly adapted to each other and
going straight ahead all the time.
Might with effects of them follow our friends,
to the physical conditions under which they live, that none of
them could anyhow be improved; for in all countries, the natives have
And show what we alone must think, which never
I did wish the fool would think to beat a tin pan, and beat it all the
Monsieur Parolles, my lord calls for you.
time, but he never did, and it was the still places between the whoops
been so far conquered by naturalised productions, that they have
Little Helen, farewell. If I can remember thee, I will think of thee at
that was making the trouble for me. Well, I fought along, and directly
allowed foreigners to take firm possession of the land. And as
I hears the whoop _behind_ me. I was tangled good now. That was
foreigners have thus everywhere beaten some of the natives, we may
Monsieur Parolles, you were born under a charitable star.
I especially think, under Mars.
safely conclude that the natives might have been modified with
somebody else’s whoop, or else I was turned around.
advantage, so as to have better resisted such intruders.
The wars hath so kept you under, that you must needs be born under
I throwed the paddle down. I heard the whoop again; it was behind me
When he was retrograde, I think rather.
As man can produce and certainly has produced a great result by his
yet, but in a different place; it kept coming, and kept changing its
place, and I kept answering, till by-and-by it was in front of me
methodical and unconscious means of selection, what may not nature
You go so much backward when you fight.
again, and I knowed the current had swung the canoe’s head down-stream,
effect? Man can act only on external and visible characters: nature
So is running away, when fear proposes the safety: but the composition
and I was all right if that was Jim and not some other raftsman
cares nothing for appearances, except in so far as they may be useful
that your valour and fear makes in you is a virtue of a good wing, and
to any being. She can act on every internal organ, on every shade of
hollering. I couldn’t tell nothing about voices in a fog, for nothing
I am so full of business I cannot answer thee acutely. I will return
constitutional difference, on the whole machinery of life. Man selects
perfect courtier; in the which my instruction shall serve to naturalize
don’t look natural nor sound natural in a fog.
thee, so thou wilt be capable of a courtier’s counsel, and understand
The whooping went on, and in about a minute I come a-booming down on a
only for his own good; Nature only for that of the being which she
what advice shall thrust upon thee; else thou diest in thine
tends. Every selected character is fully exercised by her; and the
cut bank with smoky ghosts of big trees on it, and the current throwed
being is placed under well-suited conditions of life. Man keeps the
unthankfulness, and thine ignorance makes thee away. Farewell. When
me off to the left and shot by, amongst a lot of snags that fairly
roared, the current was tearing by them so swift.
natives of many climates in the same country; he seldom exercises each
thou hast leisure, say thy prayers; when thou hast none, remember thy
friends. Get thee a good husband, and use him as he uses thee. So,
In another second or two it was solid white and still again. I set
selected character in some peculiar and fitting manner; he feeds a long
Our remedies oft in ourselves do lie,
perfectly still then, listening to my heart thump, and I reckon I
and a short beaked pigeon on the same food; he does not exercise a
Which we ascribe to heaven: the fated sky
didn’t draw a breath while it thumped a hundred.
long-backed or long-legged quadruped in any peculiar manner; he exposes
sheep with long and short wool to the same climate. He does not allow
I just give up then. I knowed what the matter was. That cut bank was an
Gives us free scope; only doth backward pull
the most vigorous males to struggle for the females. He does not
Our slow designs when we ourselves are dull.
island, and Jim had gone down t’other side of it. It warn’t no tow-head
that you could float by in ten minutes. It had the big timber of a
What power is it which mounts my love so high,
rigidly destroy all inferior animals, but protects during each varying
regular island; it might be five or six miles long and more than half a
season, as far as lies in his power, all his productions. He often
That makes me see, and cannot feed mine eye?
The mightiest space in fortune nature brings
begins his selection by some half-monstrous form; or at least by some
I kept quiet, with my ears cocked, about fifteen minutes, I reckon. I
was floating along, of course, four or five miles an hour; but you
To join like likes, and kiss like native things.
modification prominent enough to catch his eye, or to be plainly useful
don’t ever think of that. No, you _feel_ like you are laying dead still
to him. Under nature, the slightest difference of structure or
Impossible be strange attempts to those
constitution may well turn the nicely-balanced scale in the
That weigh their pains in sense, and do suppose
on the water; and if a little glimpse of a snag slips by you don’t
struggle for life, and so be preserved. How fleeting are the wishes and
think to yourself how fast _you’re_ going, but you catch your breath
What hath been cannot be. Who ever strove
and think, my! how that snag’s tearing along. If you think it ain’t
To show her merit that did miss her love?
efforts of man! how short his time! and consequently how poor will his
dismal and lonesome out in a fog that way by yourself in the night, you
The king’s disease,—my project may deceive me,
products be, compared with those accumulated by nature during whole
Next, for about a half an hour, I whoops now and then; at last I hears
But my intents are fix’d, and will not leave me.
geological periods. Can we wonder, then, that nature’s productions
should be far “truer” in character than man’s productions; that they
SCENE II. Paris. A room in the King’s palace.
the answer a long ways off, and tries to follow it, but I couldn’t do
should be infinitely better adapted to the most complex conditions of
Flourish of cornets. Enter the King of France, with letters; Lords and
it, and directly I judged I’d got into a nest of tow-heads, for I had
The Florentines and Senoys are by th’ ears;
little dim glimpses of them on both sides of me—sometimes just a narrow
life, and should plainly bear the stamp of far higher workmanship?
channel between, and some that I couldn’t see I knowed was there
It may be said that natural selection is daily and hourly scrutinising,
Have fought with equal fortune, and continue
because I’d hear the wash of the current against the old dead brush and
throughout the world, every variation, even the slightest; rejecting
Nay, ’tis most credible, we here receive it,
A certainty, vouch’d from our cousin Austria,
trash that hung over the banks. Well, I warn’t long loosing the whoops
that which is bad, preserving and adding up all that is good; silently
down amongst the tow-heads; and I only tried to chase them a little
and insensibly working, whenever and wherever opportunity offers, at
With caution, that the Florentine will move us
the improvement of each organic being in relation to its organic and
while, anyway, because it was worse than chasing a Jack-o’-lantern. You
For speedy aid; wherein our dearest friend
inorganic conditions of life. We see nothing of these slow changes in
never knowed a sound dodge around so, and swap places so quick and so
Prejudicates the business, and would seem
Approv’d so to your majesty, may plead
I had to claw away from the bank pretty lively four or five times, to
progress, until the hand of time has marked the long lapse of ages, and
keep from knocking the islands out of the river; and so I judged the
then so imperfect is our view into long past geological ages, that we
And Florence is denied before he comes:
only see that the forms of life are now different from what they
raft must be butting into the bank every now and then, or else it would
Yet, for our gentlemen that mean to see
Although natural selection can act only through and for the good of
The Tuscan service, freely have they leave
get further ahead and clear out of hearing—it was floating a little
Well, I seemed to be in the open river again by-and-by, but I couldn’t
each being, yet characters and structures, which we are apt to consider
A nursery to our gentry, who are sick
as of very trifling importance, may thus be acted on. When we see
Enter Bertram, Lafew and Parolles.
hear no sign of a whoop nowheres. I reckoned Jim had fetched up on a
snag, maybe, and it was all up with him. I was good and tired, so I
It is the Count Rossillon, my good lord,
leaf-eating insects green, and bark-feeders mottled-grey; the alpine
laid down in the canoe and said I wouldn’t bother no more. I didn’t
Youth, thou bear’st thy father’s face;
ptarmigan white in winter, the red-grouse the colour of heather, and
the black-grouse that of peaty earth, we must believe that these tints
Frank nature, rather curious than in haste,
want to go to sleep, of course; but I was so sleepy I couldn’t help it;
are of service to these birds and insects in preserving them from
so I thought I would take jest one little cat-nap.
Hath well compos’d thee. Thy father’s moral parts
Mayst thou inherit too! Welcome to Paris.
danger. Grouse, if not destroyed at some period of their lives, would
But I reckon it was more than a cat-nap, for when I waked up the stars
increase in countless numbers; they are known to suffer largely from
My thanks and duty are your majesty’s.
was shining bright, the fog was all gone, and I was spinning down a big
birds of prey; and hawks are guided by eyesight to their prey,—so much
I would I had that corporal soundness now,
bend stern first. First I didn’t know where I was; I thought I was
parts of the Continent persons are warned not to keep white pigeons, as
dreaming; and when things began to come back to me they seemed to come
As when thy father and myself in friendship
being the most liable to destruction. Hence I can see no reason to
It was a monstrous big river here, with the tallest and the thickest
First tried our soldiership. He did look far
Into the service of the time, and was
doubt that natural selection might be most effective in giving the
kind of timber on both banks; just a solid wall, as well as I could see
by the stars. I looked away down-stream, and seen a black speck on the
Discipled of the bravest. He lasted long,
proper colour to each kind of grouse, and in keeping that colour, when
water. I took after it; but when I got to it it warn’t nothing but a
But on us both did haggish age steal on,
once acquired, true and constant. Nor ought we to think that the
And wore us out of act. It much repairs me
couple of sawlogs made fast together. Then I see another speck, and
occasional destruction of an animal of any particular colour would
produce little effect: we should remember how essential it is in a
To talk of your good father; in his youth
chased that; then another, and this time I was right. It was the raft.
flock of white sheep to destroy every lamb with the faintest trace of
He had the wit which I can well observe
When I got to it Jim was setting there with his head down between his
black. In plants the down on the fruit and the colour of the flesh are
Today in our young lords; but they may jest
knees, asleep, with his right arm hanging over the steering-oar. The
considered by botanists as characters of the most trifling importance:
other oar was smashed off, and the raft was littered up with leaves and
Till their own scorn return to them unnoted
branches and dirt. So she’d had a rough time.
yet we hear from an excellent horticulturist, Downing, that in the
Ere they can hide their levity in honour
I made fast and laid down under Jim’s nose on the raft, and began to
So like a courtier, contempt nor bitterness
United States smooth-skinned fruits suffer far more from a beetle, a
gap, and stretch my fists out against Jim, and says:
Were in his pride or sharpness; if they were,
curculio, than those with down; that purple plums suffer far more from
“Hello, Jim, have I been asleep? Why didn’t you stir me up?”
a certain disease than yellow plums; whereas another disease attacks
His equal had awak’d them, and his honour,
Clock to itself, knew the true minute when
“Goodness gracious, is dat you, Huck? En you ain’ dead—you ain’
yellow-fleshed peaches far more than those with other coloured flesh.
Exception bid him speak, and at this time
drownded—you’s back agin? It’s too good for true, honey, it’s too good
If, with all the aids of art, these slight differences make a great
His tongue obey’d his hand. Who were below him
difference in cultivating the several varieties, assuredly, in a state
for true. Lemme look at you chile, lemme feel o’ you. No, you ain’
dead! you’s back agin, ’live en soun’, jis de same ole Huck—de same ole
He us’d as creatures of another place,
of nature, where the trees would have to struggle with other trees and
“What’s the matter with you, Jim? You been a-drinking?”
with a host of enemies, such differences would effectually settle which
And bow’d his eminent top to their low ranks,
variety, whether a smooth or downy, a yellow or purple fleshed fruit,
Making them proud of his humility,
“Drinkin’? Has I ben a-drinkin’? Has I had a chance to be a-drinkin’?”
“Well, then, what makes you talk so wild?”
In their poor praise he humbled. Such a man
In looking at many small points of difference between species, which,
“_How?_ Why, hain’t you been talking about my coming back, and all that
Might be a copy to these younger times;
as far as our ignorance permits us to judge, seem to be quite
stuff, as if I’d been gone away?”
unimportant, we must not forget that climate, food, etc., probably
Which, followed well, would demonstrate them now
Lies richer in your thoughts than on his tomb;
produce some slight and direct effect. It is, however, far more
“Huck—Huck Finn, you look me in de eye; look me in de eye. _Hain’t_ you
necessary to bear in mind that there are many unknown laws of
“Gone away? Why, what in the nation do you mean? _I_ hain’t been gone
So in approof lives not his epitaph
Would I were with him! He would always say,—
correlation of growth, which, when one part of the organisation is
anywheres. Where would I go to?”
Methinks I hear him now; his plausive words
modified through variation, and the modifications are accumulated by
“Well, looky here, boss, dey’s sumf’n wrong, dey is. Is I _me_, or who
_is_ I? Is I heah, or whah _is_ I? Now dat’s what I wants to know.”
He scatter’d not in ears, but grafted them
the good of the being, will cause other modifications, often of the
As we see that those variations which under domestication appear at any
To grow there and to bear,—“Let me not live,”
“Well, I think you’re here, plain enough, but I think you’re a
particular period of life, tend to reappear in the offspring at the
This his good melancholy oft began
“I is, is I? Well, you answer me dis: Didn’t you tote out de line in de
same period;—for instance, in the seeds of the many varieties of our
On the catastrophe and heel of pastime,
canoe fer to make fas’ to de tow-head?”
culinary and agricultural plants; in the caterpillar and cocoon stages
When it was out,—“Let me not live” quoth he,
“No, I didn’t. What tow-head? I hain’t see no tow-head.”
“You hain’t seen no tow-head? Looky here, didn’t de line pull loose en
“After my flame lacks oil, to be the snuff
of the varieties of the silkworm; in the eggs of poultry, and in the
Of younger spirits, whose apprehensive senses
colour of the down of their chickens; in the horns of our sheep and
de raf’ go a-hummin’ down de river, en leave you en de canoe behine in
cattle when nearly adult;—so in a state of nature, natural selection
All but new things disdain; whose judgments are
“Why, _de_ fog!—de fog dat’s been aroun’ all night. En didn’t you
Mere fathers of their garments; whose constancies
whoop, en didn’t I whoop, tell we got mix’ up in de islands en one un
will be enabled to act on and modify organic beings at any age, by the
us got los’ en t’other one was jis’ as good as los’, ’kase he didn’
Expire before their fashions.” This he wish’d.
accumulation of profitable variations at that age, and by their
I, after him, do after him wish too,
know whah he wuz? En didn’t I bust up agin a lot er dem islands en have
inheritance at a corresponding age. If it profit a plant to have its
a turrible time en mos’ git drownded? Now ain’ dat so, boss—ain’t it
seeds more and more widely disseminated by the wind, I can see no
Since I nor wax nor honey can bring home,
“Well, this is too many for me, Jim. I hain’t seen no fog, nor no
I quickly were dissolved from my hive
greater difficulty in this being effected through natural selection,
than in the cotton-planter increasing and improving by selection the
islands, nor no troubles, nor nothing. I been setting here talking with
They that least lend it you shall lack you first.
down in the pods on his cotton-trees. Natural selection may modify and
you all night till you went to sleep about ten minutes ago, and I
I fill a place, I know’t. How long is’t, Count,
adapt the larva of an insect to a score of contingencies, wholly
reckon I done the same. You couldn’t a got drunk in that time, so of
Since the physician at your father’s died?
Some six months since, my lord.
“Dad fetch it, how is I gwyne to dream all dat in ten minutes?”
different from those which concern the mature insect. These
If he were living, I would try him yet;—
modifications will no doubt affect, through the laws of correlation,
“Well, hang it all, you did dream it, because there didn’t any of it
“But, Huck, it’s all jis’ as plain to me as—”
Lend me an arm;—the rest have worn me out
the structure of the adult; and probably in the case of those insects
With several applications; nature and sickness
“It don’t make no difference how plain it is; there ain’t nothing in
which live only for a few hours, and which never feed, a large part of
Debate it at their leisure. Welcome, Count;
their structure is merely the correlated result of successive changes
it. I know, because I’ve been here all the time.”
SCENE III. Rossillon. A Room in the Palace.
in the structure of their larvæ. So, conversely, modifications in the
Jim didn’t say nothing for about five minutes, but set there studying
Enter Countess, Steward and Clown.
“Well, den, I reck’n I did dream it, Huck; but dog my cats ef it ain’t
adult will probably often affect the structure of the larva; but in all
I will now hear. What say you of this gentlewoman?
de powerfullest dream I ever see. En I hain’t ever had no dream b’fo’
cases natural selection will ensure that modifications consequent on
other modifications at a different period of life, shall not be in the
Madam, the care I have had to even your content, I wish might be found
“Oh, well, that’s all right, because a dream does tire a body like
everything sometimes. But this one was a staving dream; tell me all
in the calendar of my past endeavours; for then we wound our modesty,
least degree injurious: for if they became so, they would cause the
and make foul the clearness of our deservings, when of ourselves we
So Jim went to work and told me the whole thing right through, just as
Natural selection will modify the structure of the
it happened, only he painted it up considerable. Then he said he must
young in relation to the parent, and of the parent in relation to the
What does this knave here? Get you gone, sirrah. The complaints I have
heard of you I do not all believe; ’tis my slowness that I do not; for
start in and “’terpret” it, because it was sent for a warning. He said
young. In social animals it will adapt the structure of each individual
for the benefit of the community; if each in consequence profits by the
the first tow-head stood for a man that would try to do us some good,
I know you lack not folly to commit them, and have ability enough to
’Tis not unknown to you, madam, I am a poor fellow.
selected change. What natural selection cannot do, is to modify the
but the current was another man that would get us away from him. The
structure of one species, without giving it any advantage, for the good
No, madam, ’tis not so well that I am poor, though many of the rich are
whoops was warnings that would come to us every now and then, and if we
damned; but if I may have your ladyship’s good will to go to the world,
of another species; and though statements to this effect may be found
didn’t try hard to make out to understand them they’d just take us into
Isbel the woman and I will do as we may.
in works of natural history, I cannot find one case which will bear
bad luck, ’stead of keeping us out of it. The lot of tow-heads was
troubles we was going to get into with quarrelsome people and all kinds
I do beg your good will in this case.
investigation. A structure used only once in an animal’s whole life, if
In Isbel’s case and mine own. Service is no heritage, and I think I
of high importance to it, might be modified to any extent by natural
of mean folks, but if we minded our business and didn’t talk back and
selection; for instance, the great jaws possessed by certain insects,
shall never have the blessing of God till I have issue of my body; for
aggravate them, we would pull through and get out of the fog and into
they say barnes are blessings.
the big clear river, which was the free States, and wouldn’t have no
and used exclusively for opening the cocoon—or the hard tip to the beak
of nestling birds, used for breaking the egg. It has been asserted,
It had clouded up pretty dark just after I got on to the raft, but it
Tell me thy reason why thou wilt marry.
“Oh, well, that’s all interpreted well enough as far as it goes, Jim,”
that of the best short-beaked tumbler-pigeons more perish in the egg
My poor body, madam, requires it; I am driven on by the flesh, and he
must needs go that the devil drives.
I says; “but what does _these_ things stand for?”
than are able to get out of it; so that fanciers assist in the act of
Is this all your worship’s reason?
It was the leaves and rubbish on the raft and the smashed oar. You
hatching. Now, if nature had to make the beak of a full-grown pigeon
very short for the bird’s own advantage, the process of modification
could see them first-rate now.
Faith, madam, I have other holy reasons, such as they are.
Jim looked at the trash, and then looked at me, and back at the trash
I have been, madam, a wicked creature, as you and all flesh and blood
would be very slow, and there would be simultaneously the most rigorous
are; and indeed I do marry that I may repent.
again. He had got the dream fixed so strong in his head that he
selection of the young birds within the egg, which had the most
Thy marriage, sooner than thy wickedness.
couldn’t seem to shake it loose and get the facts back into its place
powerful and hardest beaks, for all with weak beaks would inevitably
I am out of friends, madam, and I hope to have friends for my wife’s
perish: or, more delicate and more easily broken shells might be
again right away. But when he did get the thing straightened around he
selected, the thickness of the shell being known to vary like every
looked at me steady without ever smiling, and says:
Such friends are thine enemies, knave.
“What do dey stan’ for? I’se gwyne to tell you. When I got all wore out
_Sexual Selection_.—Inasmuch as peculiarities often appear under
Y’are shallow, madam, in great friends; for the knaves come to do that
domestication in one sex and become hereditarily attached to that sex,
for me which I am a-weary of. He that ears my land spares my team, and
wid work, en wid de callin’ for you, en went to sleep, my heart wuz
mos’ broke bekase you wuz los’, en I didn’ k’yer no’ mo’ what become er
gives me leave to in the crop: if I be his cuckold, he’s my drudge. He
the same fact probably occurs under nature, and if so, natural
selection will be able to modify one sex in its functional relations to
that comforts my wife is the cherisher of my flesh and blood; he that
me en de raf’. En when I wake up en fine you back agin, all safe en
soun’, de tears come, en I could a got down on my knees en kiss yo’
the other sex, or in relation to wholly different habits of life in the
cherishes my flesh and blood loves my flesh and blood; he that loves my
flesh and blood is my friend; ergo, he that kisses my wife is my
foot, I’s so thankful. En all you wuz thinkin’ ’bout wuz how you could
two sexes, as is sometimes the case
friend. If men could be contented to be what they are, there were no
with insects. And this leads me to say a few words on what I call
make a fool uv ole Jim wid a lie. Dat truck dah is _trash;_ en trash is
Sexual Selection. This depends, not on a struggle for existence, but on
what people is dat puts dirt on de head er dey fren’s en makes ’em
fear in marriage; for young Charbon the puritan and old Poysam the
a struggle between the males for possession of the females; the result
Then he got up slow and walked to the wigwam, and went in there without
papist, howsome’er their hearts are sever’d in religion, their heads
are both one; they may jowl horns together like any deer i’ the herd.
is not death to the unsuccessful competitor, but few or no offspring.
saying anything but that. But that was enough. It made me feel so mean
Wilt thou ever be a foul-mouth’d and calumnious knave?
Sexual selection is, therefore, less rigorous than natural selection.
I could almost kissed _his_ foot to get him to take it back.
It was fifteen minutes before I could work myself up to go and humble
A prophet I, madam; and I speak the truth the next way:
Generally, the most vigorous males, those which are best fitted for
_For I the ballad will repeat,
their places in nature, will leave most progeny. But in many cases,
myself to a nigger; but I done it, and I warn’t ever sorry for it
afterwards, neither. I didn’t do him no more mean tricks, and I
Which men full true shall find;
victory will depend not on general vigour, but on having special
wouldn’t done that one if I’d a knowed it would make him feel that way.
Your marriage comes by destiny,
weapons, confined to the male sex. A hornless stag or spurless cock
We slept most all day, and started out at night, a little ways behind a
would have a poor chance of leaving offspring. Sexual selection by
Get you gone, sir; I’ll talk with you more anon.
always allowing the victor to breed might surely give indomitable
May it please you, madam, that he bid Helen come to you; of her I am to
monstrous long raft that was as long going by as a procession. She had
courage, length to the spur, and strength to the wing to strike in the
four long sweeps at each end, so we judged she carried as many as
Sirrah, tell my gentlewoman I would speak with her; Helen I mean.
spurred leg, as well as the brutal cock-fighter, who knows well that he
thirty men, likely. She had five big wigwams aboard, wide apart, and an
_   Was this fair face the cause, quoth she,
With that she sighed as she stood,
open camp fire in the middle, and a tall flag-pole at each end. There
can improve his breed by careful selection of the best cocks. How low
in the scale of nature this law of battle descends, I know not; male
With that she sighed as she stood,
was a power of style about her. It _amounted_ to something being a
alligators have been described as fighting, bellowing, and whirling
Among nine bad if one be good,
raftsman on such a craft as that.
round, like Indians in a war-dance, for the possession of the females;
We went drifting down into a big bend, and the night clouded up and got
Among nine bad if one be good,
What, one good in ten? You corrupt the song, sirrah.
male salmons have been seen fighting all day long; male stag-beetles
hot. The river was very wide, and was walled with solid timber on both
One good woman in ten, madam, which is a purifying o’ the song. Would
often bear wounds from the huge mandibles of other males. The war is,
sides; you couldn’t see a break in it hardly ever, or a light. We
God would serve the world so all the year! We’d find no fault with the
talked about Cairo, and wondered whether we would know it when we got
perhaps, severest between the males of polygamous animals, and these
tithe-woman, if I were the parson. One in ten, quoth ’a! And we might
to it. I said likely we wouldn’t, because I had heard say there warn’t
seem oftenest provided with special weapons. The males of carnivorous
have a good woman born but or every blazing star, or at an earthquake,
animals are already well armed; though to them and to others, special
but about a dozen houses there, and if they didn’t happen to have them
lit up, how was we going to know we was passing a town? Jim said if the
’twould mend the lottery well; a man may draw his heart out ere he
means of defence may be given through means of sexual selection, as the
two big rivers joined together there, that would show. But I said maybe
You’ll be gone, sir knave, and do as I command you!
mane to the lion, the shoulder-pad to the boar, and the hooked jaw to
That man should be at woman’s command, and yet no hurt done! Though
we might think we was passing the foot of an island and coming into the
the male salmon; for the shield may be as important for victory, as the
honesty be no puritan, yet it will do no hurt; it will wear the
Amongst birds, the contest is often of a more peaceful character. All
same old river again. That disturbed Jim—and me too. So the question
surplice of humility over the black gown of a big heart. I am going,
those who have attended to the subject,
was, what to do? I said, paddle ashore the first time a light showed,
and tell them pap was behind, coming along with a trading-scow, and was
believe that there is the severest rivalry between the males of many
forsooth; the business is for Helen to come hither.
species to attract by singing the females. The rock-thrush of Guiana,
I know, madam, you love your gentlewoman entirely.
a green hand at the business, and wanted to know how far it was to
Cairo. Jim thought it was a good idea, so we took a smoke on it and
birds of Paradise, and some others, congregate; and successive males
Faith I do. Her father bequeath’d her to me, and she herself, without
other advantage, may lawfully make title to as much love as she finds;
There warn’t nothing to do now but to look out sharp for the town, and
display their gorgeous plumage and perform strange antics before the
females, which standing by as spectators, at last choose the most
there is more owing her than is paid, and more shall be paid her than
not pass it without seeing it. He said he’d be mighty sure to see it,
because he’d be a free man the minute he seen it, but if he missed it
Madam, I was very late more near her than I think she wish’d me; alone
attractive partner. Those who have closely attended to birds in
he’d be in a slave country again and no more show for freedom. Every
confinement well know that they often take individual preferences and
she was, and did communicate to herself her own words to her own ears;
she thought, I dare vow for her, they touch’d not any stranger sense.
little while he jumps up and says:
dislikes: thus Sir R. Heron has described how one pied peacock was
Her matter was, she loved your son. Fortune, she said, was no goddess,
eminently attractive to all his hen birds. It may appear childish to
But it warn’t. It was Jack-o’-lanterns, or lightning bugs; so he set
down again, and went to watching, same as before. Jim said it made him
that had put such difference betwixt their two estates; Love no god,
attribute any effect to such apparently weak means: I cannot here enter
that would not extend his might only where qualities were level; Diana
on the details necessary to support this view; but if man can in a
all over trembly and feverish to be so close to freedom. Well, I can
short time give elegant carriage and beauty to his bantams, according
no queen of virgins, that would suffer her poor knight surpris’d,
tell you it made me all over trembly and feverish, too, to hear him,
because I begun to get it through my head that he _was_ most free—and
without rescue in the first assault or ransom afterward. This she
to his standard of beauty, I can see no good reason to doubt that
deliver’d in the most bitter touch of sorrow that e’er I heard virgin
who was to blame for it? Why, _me_. I couldn’t get that out of my
female birds, by selecting, during thousands of generations, the most
melodious or beautiful males, according to their standard of beauty,
exclaim in, which I held my duty speedily to acquaint you withal;
conscience, no how nor no way. It got to troubling me so I couldn’t
might produce a marked effect. I strongly suspect that some well-known
rest; I couldn’t stay still in one place. It hadn’t ever come home to
sithence, in the loss that may happen, it concerns you something to
You have discharg’d this honestly; keep it to yourself; many
laws with respect to the plumage of male and female birds, in
me before, what this thing was that I was doing. But now it did; and it
likelihoods inform’d me of this before, which hung so tottering in the
stayed with me, and scorched me more and more. I tried to make out to
comparison with the plumage of the young, can be explained on the view
of plumage having been chiefly modified by sexual selection, acting
balance that I could neither believe nor misdoubt. Pray you leave me;
myself that _I_ warn’t to blame, because _I_ didn’t run Jim off from
stall this in your bosom; and I thank you for your honest care. I will
his rightful owner; but it warn’t no use, conscience up and says, every
when the birds have come to the breeding age or during the breeding
time, “But you knowed he was running for his freedom, and you could a
Even so it was with me when I was young;
season; the modifications thus produced being inherited at
If ever we are nature’s, these are ours; this thorn
corresponding ages or seasons, either by the males alone, or by the
paddled ashore and told somebody.” That was so—I couldn’t get around
males and females; but I have not space here to enter on this subject.
Doth to our rose of youth rightly belong;
that noway. That was where it pinched. Conscience says to me, “What had
poor Miss Watson done to you that you could see her nigger go off right
Thus it is, as I believe, that when the males and females of any animal
Our blood to us, this to our blood is born;
under your eyes and never say one single word? What did that poor old
have the same general habits of life, but differ in structure, colour,
It is the show and seal of nature’s truth,
Where love’s strong passion is impress’d in youth.
woman do to you that you could treat her so mean? Why, she tried to
or ornament, such differences have been mainly caused by sexual
By our remembrances of days foregone,
learn you your book, she tried to learn you your manners, she tried to
selection; that is, individual males have had, in successive
Such were our faults, or then we thought them none.
generations, some slight advantage over other
be good to you every way she knowed how. _That’s_ what she done.”
I got to feeling so mean and so miserable I most wished I was dead. I
Her eye is sick on’t; I observe her now.
males, in their weapons, means of defence, or charms; and have
Why not a mother? When I said a mother,
transmitted these advantages to their male offspring. Yet, I would not
fidgeted up and down the raft, abusing myself to myself, and Jim was
wish to attribute all such sexual differences to this agency: for we
Methought you saw a serpent. What’s in mother,
fidgeting up and down past me. We neither of us could keep still. Every
time he danced around and says, “Dah’s Cairo!” it went through me like
see peculiarities arising and becoming attached to the male sex in our
That you start at it? I say I am your mother,
a shot, and I thought if it _was_ Cairo I reckoned I would die of
And put you in the catalogue of those
domestic animals (as the wattle in male carriers, horn-like
That were enwombed mine. ’Tis often seen
Jim talked out loud all the time while I was talking to myself. He was
protuberances in the cocks of certain fowls, etc.), which we cannot
saying how the first thing he would do when he got to a free State he
believe to be either useful to the males in battle, or attractive to
Adoption strives with nature, and choice breeds
the females. We see analogous cases under nature, for instance, the
would go to saving up money and never spend a single cent, and when he
A native slip to us from foreign seeds.
got enough he would buy his wife, which was owned on a farm close to
tuft of hair on the breast of the turkey-cock, which can hardly be
You ne’er oppress’d me with a mother’s groan,
either useful or ornamental to this bird;—indeed, had the tuft appeared
where Miss Watson lived; and then they would both work to buy the two
Yet I express to you a mother’s care.
children, and if their master wouldn’t sell them, they’d get an
under domestication, it would have been called a monstrosity.
God’s mercy, maiden! does it curd thy blood
To say I am thy mother? What’s the matter,
Ab’litionist to go and steal them.
_Illustrations of the action of Natural Selection_.—In order to make it
clear how, as I believe, natural selection acts, I must beg permission
That this distempered messenger of wet,
It most froze me to hear such talk. He wouldn’t ever dared to talk such
The many-colour’d Iris, rounds thine eye?
to give one or two imaginary illustrations. Let us take the case of a
talk in his life before. Just see what a difference it made in him the
wolf, which preys on various animals, securing some by craft, some by
—Why, that you are my daughter?
minute he judged he was about free. It was according to the old saying,
The Count Rossillon cannot be my brother.
strength, and some by fleetness; and let us suppose that the fleetest
“Give a nigger an inch and he’ll take an ell.” Thinks I, this is what
prey, a deer for instance, had from any change in the country increased
I am from humble, he from honoured name;
comes of my not thinking. Here was this nigger, which I had as good as
helped to run away, coming right out flat-footed and saying he would
No note upon my parents, his all noble,
in numbers, or that other prey had decreased in numbers, during that
season of the year when the wolf is hardest pressed for food. I can
My master, my dear lord he is; and I
steal his children—children that belonged to a man I didn’t even know;
under such circumstances see no reason to doubt that the swiftest and
His servant live, and will his vassal die.
a man that hadn’t ever done me no harm.
I was sorry to hear Jim say that, it was such a lowering of him. My
slimmest wolves would have the best chance of surviving, and so be
You are my mother, madam; would you were—
So that my lord your son were not my brother,—
preserved or selected,—provided always that they retained strength to
conscience got to stirring me up hotter than ever, until at last I says
Indeed my mother! or were you both our mothers,
master their prey at this or at some other period of the year, when
to it, “Let up on me—it ain’t too late yet—I’ll paddle ashore at the
I care no more for than I do for heaven,
first light and tell.” I felt easy and happy and light as a feather
they might be compelled to prey on other animals. I can see no more
reason to doubt this, than that man can improve the fleetness of his
right off. All my troubles was gone. I went to looking out sharp for a
So I were not his sister. Can’t no other,
But, I your daughter, he must be my brother?
greyhounds by careful and methodical selection, or by that unconscious
light, and sort of singing to myself. By-and-by one showed. Jim sings
“We’s safe, Huck, we’s safe! Jump up and crack yo’ heels! Dat’s de good
selection which results from each man trying
Yes, Helen, you might be my daughter-in-law.
God shield you mean it not! daughter and mother
to keep the best dogs without any thought of modifying the breed.
ole Cairo at las’, I jis knows it!”
So strive upon your pulse. What! pale again?
Even without any change in the proportional numbers of the animals on
“I’ll take the canoe and go and see, Jim. It mightn’t be, you know.”
He jumped and got the canoe ready, and put his old coat in the bottom
My fear hath catch’d your fondness; now I see
which our wolf preyed, a cub might be born with an innate tendency to
pursue certain kinds of prey. Nor can this be thought very improbable;
for me to set on, and give me the paddle; and as I shoved off, he says:
The mystery of your loneliness, and find
“Pooty soon I’ll be a-shout’n’ for joy, en I’ll say, it’s all on
for we often observe great differences in the natural tendencies of our
Your salt tears’ head. Now to all sense ’tis gross
accounts o’ Huck; I’s a free man, en I couldn’t ever ben free ef it
domestic animals; one cat, for instance, taking to catch rats, another
You love my son; invention is asham’d,
mice; one cat, according to Mr. St. John, bringing home winged game,
Against the proclamation of thy passion
hadn’ ben for Huck; Huck done it. Jim won’t ever forgit you, Huck;
another hares or rabbits, and another hunting on marshy ground and
you’s de bes’ fren’ Jim’s ever had; en you’s de _only_ fren’ ole Jim’s
To say thou dost not. Therefore tell me true;
I was paddling off, all in a sweat to tell on him; but when he says
almost nightly catching woodcocks or snipes. The tendency to catch rats
But tell me then, ’tis so; for, look, thy cheeks
rather than mice is known to be inherited. Now, if any slight innate
this, it seemed to kind of take the tuck all out of me. I went along
Confess it, t’one to th’other; and thine eyes
slow then, and I warn’t right down certain whether I was glad I started
See it so grossly shown in thy behaviours,
change of habit or of structure benefited an individual wolf, it would
have the best chance of surviving and of leaving offspring. Some of its
or whether I warn’t. When I was fifty yards off, Jim says:
That in their kind they speak it; only sin
And hellish obstinacy tie thy tongue,
“Dah you goes, de ole true Huck; de on’y white genlman dat ever kep’
young would probably inherit the same habits or structure, and by the
That truth should be suspected. Speak, is’t so?
Well, I just felt sick. But I says, I _got_ to do it—I can’t get _out_
repetition of this process, a new variety might be formed which would
of it. Right then along comes a skiff with two men in it with guns, and
If it be so, you have wound a goodly clew;
either supplant or coexist with the parent-form of wolf. Or, again, the
wolves inhabiting a mountainous district, and those frequenting the
If it be not, forswear’t: howe’er, I charge thee,
they stopped and I stopped. One of them says:
lowlands, would naturally be forced to hunt different prey; and from
“Well, there’s five niggers run off to-night up yonder, above the head
As heaven shall work in me for thine avail,
of the bend. Is your man white or black?”
Go not about; my love hath in’t a bond
the continued preservation of the individuals best fitted for the two
sites, two varieties might slowly be formed. These varieties would
Whereof the world takes note. Come, come, disclose
I didn’t answer up prompt. I tried to, but the words wouldn’t come. I
tried for a second or two to brace up and out with it, but I warn’t man
cross and blend where they met; but to this subject of intercrossing we
The state of your affection, for your passions
shall soon have to return. I may add, that, according to Mr. Pierce,
enough—hadn’t the spunk of a rabbit. I see I was weakening; so I just
Here on my knee, before high heaven and you,
That before you, and next unto high heaven,
give up trying, and up and says:
there are two varieties of the wolf inhabiting the Catskill Mountains
My friends were poor, but honest; so’s my love.
“I reckon we’ll go and see for ourselves.”
in the United States, one with a light greyhound-like form, which
pursues deer, and the other more bulky, with shorter legs, which more
“I wish you would,” says I, “because it’s pap that’s there, and maybe
Be not offended; for it hurts not him
That he is lov’d of me; I follow him not
frequently attacks the shepherd’s flocks.
you’d help me tow the raft ashore where the light is. He’s sick—and so
“Oh, the devil! we’re in a hurry, boy. But I s’pose we’ve got to. Come,
Let us now take a more complex case. Certain plants excrete a sweet
By any token of presumptuous suit,
juice, apparently for the sake of eliminating something injurious from
buckle to your paddle, and let’s get along.”
Nor would I have him till I do deserve him;
Yet never know how that desert should be.
effected by glands at the base of the stipules in some Leguminosæ, and
I buckled to my paddle and they laid to their oars. When we had made a
at the back of the leaf of the common laurel. This juice, though small
“Pap’ll be mighty much obleeged to you, I can tell you. Everybody goes
I know I love in vain, strive against hope;
away when I want them to help me tow the raft ashore, and I can’t do it
Yet in this captious and inteemable sieve
in quantity, is greedily sought by insects. Let us now suppose a little
“Well, that’s infernal mean. Odd, too. Say, boy, what’s the matter with
sweet juice or nectar to be excreted by the inner bases of the petals
I still pour in the waters of my love
“It’s the—a—the—well, it ain’t anything much.”
of a flower. In this case insects in seeking the nectar would get
And lack not to lose still. Thus, Indian-like,
Religious in mine error, I adore
dusted with pollen, and would certainly often transport the pollen from
They stopped pulling. It warn’t but a mighty little ways to the raft
The sun that looks upon his worshipper,
“Boy, that’s a lie. What _is_ the matter with your pap? Answer up
one flower to the stigma of another flower. The flowers of two distinct
But knows of him no more. My dearest madam,
square now, and it’ll be the better for you.”
individuals of the same species would thus get crossed; and the act of
“I will, sir, I will, honest—but don’t leave us, please. It’s
crossing, we have good reason to believe (as will hereafter be more
Let not your hate encounter with my love,
the—the—gentlemen, if you’ll only pull ahead, and let me heave you the
fully alluded to), would produce very vigorous seedlings, which
For loving where you do; but if yourself,
Whose aged honour cites a virtuous youth,
headline, you won’t have to come a-near the raft—please do.”
consequently would have the best chance of flourishing and surviving.
Did ever, in so true a flame of liking,
Some of these seedlings would probably inherit the nectar-excreting
“Set her back, John, set her back!” says one. They backed water. “Keep
power. Those individual flowers which had the largest glands or
away, boy—keep to looard. Confound it, I just expect the wind has
Wish chastely, and love dearly, that your Dian
blowed it to us. Your pap’s got the small-pox, and you know it precious
Was both herself and love; O then, give pity
nectaries, and which excreted most nectar, would be oftenest visited by
To her whose state is such that cannot choose
insects, and would be oftenest crossed; and so in the long-run would
well. Why didn’t you come out and say so? Do you want to spread it all
But lend and give where she is sure to lose;
“Well,” says I, a-blubbering, “I’ve told everybody before, and they
gain the upper hand. Those flowers, also, which had their stamens and
pistils placed, in relation to the size and habits of the particular
“Poor devil, there’s something in that. We are right down sorry for
That seeks not to find that her search implies,
insects which visited them, so as to favour in any degree the
you, but we—well, hang it, we don’t want the small-pox, you see. Look
But riddle-like, lives sweetly where she dies!
transportal of their pollen from flower to flower, would likewise be
here, I’ll tell you what to do. Don’t you try to land by yourself, or
Had you not lately an intent,—speak truly,—
you’ll smash everything to pieces. You float along down about twenty
I will tell truth; by grace itself I swear.
favoured or selected. We might have taken the case of insects visiting
You know my father left me some prescriptions
miles, and you’ll come to a town on the left-hand side of the river. It
flowers for the sake of collecting pollen instead of nectar; and as
Of rare and prov’d effects, such as his reading
will be long after sun-up then, and when you ask for help you tell them
pollen is formed for the sole object of fertilisation, its destruction
appears a simple loss to the plant; yet if a little pollen were
your folks are all down with chills and fever. Don’t be a fool again,
And manifest experience had collected
and let people guess what is the matter. Now we’re trying to do you a
carried, at first occasionally and then habitually, by the
For general sovereignty; and that he will’d me
In heedfull’st reservation to bestow them,
kindness; so you just put twenty miles between us, that’s a good boy.
pollen-devouring insects from flower to flower, and a cross thus
As notes whose faculties inclusive were
effected, although nine-tenths of the pollen were destroyed, it might
It wouldn’t do any good to land yonder where the light is—it’s only a
More than they were in note. Amongst the rest
still be a great gain to the plant; and those individuals which
wood-yard. Say, I reckon your father’s poor, and I’m bound to say he’s
There is a remedy, approv’d, set down,
produced more and more pollen, and had larger and larger anthers, would
in pretty hard luck. Here, I’ll put a twenty-dollar gold piece on this
To cure the desperate languishings whereof
board, and you get it when it floats by. I feel mighty mean to leave
When our plant, by this process of the continued preservation or
natural selection of more and more attractive flowers, had been
My lord your son made me to think of this;
you; but my kingdom! it won’t do to fool with small-pox, don’t you
“Hold on, Parker,” says the other man, “here’s a twenty to put on the
rendered highly attractive to insects, they would, unintentionally on
Else Paris, and the medicine, and the king,
Had from the conversation of my thoughts
their part, regularly carry pollen from flower to flower; and that they
board for me. Good-bye, boy; you do as Mr. Parker told you, and you’ll
can most effectually do this, I could easily show by many striking
“That’s so, my boy—good-bye, good-bye. If you see any runaway niggers
If you should tender your supposed aid,
instances. I will give only one—not as a very striking case, but as
you get help and nab them, and you can make some money by it.”
He would receive it? He and his physicians
likewise illustrating one step in the separation of the sexes of
Are of a mind; he, that they cannot help him;
“Good-bye, sir,” says I; “I won’t let no runaway niggers get by me if I
plants, presently to be alluded to. Some holly-trees bear only male
They, that they cannot help. How shall they credit
They went off and I got aboard the raft, feeling bad and low, because I
flowers, which have four stamens producing rather a small quantity of
A poor unlearned virgin, when the schools,
knowed very well I had done wrong, and I see it warn’t no use for me to
Embowell’d of their doctrine, have let off
try to learn to do right; a body that don’t get _started_ right when
pollen, and a rudimentary pistil; other holly-trees bear only female
flowers; these have a full-sized pistil, and four stamens with
More than my father’s skill, which was the great’st
he’s little ain’t got no show—when the pinch comes there ain’t nothing
shrivelled anthers, in which not a grain of pollen can be detected.
to back him up and keep him to his work, and so he gets beat. Then I
Of his profession, that his good receipt
Shall for my legacy be sanctified
thought a minute, and says to myself, hold on; s’pose you’d a done
Having found a female tree exactly sixty yards from a male tree, I put
right and give Jim up, would you felt better than what you do now? No,
the stigmas of twenty flowers, taken from different branches, under the
By th’ luckiest stars in heaven; and would your honour
says I, I’d feel bad—I’d feel just the same way I do now. Well, then,
But give me leave to try success, I’d venture
microscope, and on all, without exception, there were pollen-grains,
and on some a profusion of pollen. As the wind had set for several days
The well-lost life of mine on his grace’s cure.
says I, what’s the use you learning to do right when it’s troublesome
Why, Helen, thou shalt have my leave and love,
to do right and ain’t no trouble to do wrong, and the wages is just the
from the female to the male tree, the pollen could not thus have been
carried. The weather had been cold and boisterous, and therefore not
same? I was stuck. I couldn’t answer that. So I reckoned I wouldn’t
Means and attendants, and my loving greetings
favourable to bees, nevertheless every female flower which I examined
bother no more about it, but after this always do whichever come
To those of mine in court. I’ll stay at home,
And pray God’s blessing into thy attempt.
had been effectually fertilised by the bees, accidentally dusted with
I went into the wigwam; Jim warn’t there. I looked all around; he
pollen, having flown from tree to tree in search of nectar. But to
“Here I is, Huck. Is dey out o’ sight yit? Don’t talk loud.”
Be gone tomorrow; and be sure of this,
He was in the river under the stern oar, with just his nose out. I told
return to our imaginary case: as soon as the plant had been rendered so
What I can help thee to, thou shalt not miss.
highly attractive to insects that pollen was regularly carried from
him they were out of sight, so he come aboard. He says:
SCENE I. Paris. A room in the King’s palace.
Flourish. Enter the King with young Lords taking leave for the
flower to flower, another process might commence. No naturalist doubts
“I was a-listenin’ to all de talk, en I slips into de river en was
Florentine war; Bertram, Parolles and Attendants.
gwyne to shove for sho’ if dey come aboard. Den I was gwyne to swim to
the advantage of what has been called the “physiological division of
labour;” hence we may believe that it would be advantageous to a plant
de raf’ agin when dey was gone. But lawsy, how you did fool ’em, Huck!
Farewell, young lords; these warlike principles
to produce stamens alone in one flower or on one whole plant, and
Do not throw from you; and you, my lords, farewell;
Dat _wuz_ de smartes’ dodge! I tell you, chile, I ’speck it save’ ole
another flower or on another plant. In plants under culture and placed
Share the advice betwixt you; if both gain all,
Jim—ole Jim ain’t going to forgit you for dat, honey.”
Then we talked about the money. It was a pretty good raise—twenty
The gift doth stretch itself as ’tis receiv’d,
under new conditions of life, sometimes the male organs and sometimes
After well-ent’red soldiers, to return
the female organs become more or less impotent; now if we suppose this
dollars apiece. Jim said we could take deck passage on a steamboat now,
and the money would last us as far as we wanted to go in the free
to occur in ever so slight a degree under nature, then as pollen is
And find your grace in health.
already carried regularly from flower to flower, and as a more complete
No, no, it cannot be; and yet my heart
States. He said twenty mile more warn’t far for the raft to go, but he
Will not confess he owes the malady
Towards daybreak we tied up, and Jim was mighty particular about hiding
separation of the sexes of our plant would be advantageous on the
the raft good. Then he worked all day fixing things in bundles, and
principle of the division of labour, individuals with this tendency
That doth my life besiege. Farewell, young lords.
Whether I live or die, be you the sons
getting all ready to quit rafting.
more and more increased, would be continually favoured or selected,
Of worthy Frenchmen; let higher Italy,—
until at last a complete separation of the sexes would be effected.
That night about ten we hove in sight of the lights of a town away down
I went off in the canoe to ask about it. Pretty soon I found a man out
Let us now turn to the nectar-feeding insects in our imaginary case: we
Those bated that inherit but the fall
Of the last monarchy—see that you come
may suppose the plant of which we have been slowly increasing the
in the river with a skiff, setting a trot-line. I ranged up and says:
Not to woo honour, but to wed it, when
nectar by continued selection, to be a common plant; and that certain
“Cairo? no. You must be a blame’ fool.”
“If you want to know, go and find out. If you stay here botherin’
insects depended in main part on its nectar for food. I could give many
The bravest questant shrinks: find what you seek,
around me for about a half a minute longer you’ll get something you
That fame may cry you loud. I say farewell.
facts, showing how anxious bees are to save time; for instance, their
habit of cutting holes and sucking the nectar at the bases of certain
Health, at your bidding serve your majesty!
I paddled to the raft. Jim was awful disappointed, but I said never
Those girls of Italy, take heed of them;
mind, Cairo would be the next place, I reckoned.
flowers, which they can, with a very little more trouble, enter by the
They say our French lack language to deny
We passed another town before daylight, and I was going out again; but
mouth. Bearing such facts in mind, I can see no reason to doubt that an
If they demand; beware of being captives
it was high ground, so I didn’t go. No high ground about Cairo, Jim
accidental deviation in the size and form of the body, or in the
said. I had forgot it. We laid up for the day on a tow-head tolerable
Our hearts receive your warnings.
curvature and length of the proboscis, etc., far too slight to be
close to the left-hand bank. I begun to suspicion something. So did
appreciated by us, might profit a bee or other insect, so that an
[_The King retires to a couch._]
“Maybe we went by Cairo in the fog that night.”
O my sweet lord, that you will stay behind us!
individual so characterised would be able to obtain its food more
“Doan’ le’s talk about it, Huck. Po’ niggers can’t have no luck. I
quickly, and so have a better chance of living and leaving descendants.
’Tis not his fault; the spark.
Its descendants would probably inherit a tendency to a similar slight
Most admirable! I have seen those wars.
awluz ’spected dat rattlesnake-skin warn’t done wid its work.”
I am commanded here, and kept a coil with,
deviation of structure. The tubes of the corollas of the common red and
“I wish I’d never seen that snake-skin, Jim—I do wish I’d never laid
incarnate clovers (Trifolium pratense and incarnatum) do not on a hasty
“Too young”, and “the next year” and “’tis too early”.
“It ain’t yo’ fault, Huck; you didn’ know. Don’t you blame yo’self
glance appear to differ in length; yet the hive-bee can easily suck the
When it was daylight, here was the clear Ohio water inshore, sure
An thy mind stand to’t, boy, steal away bravely.
enough, and outside was the old regular Muddy! So it was all up with
nectar out of the incarnate clover, but not out of the common red
I shall stay here the forehorse to a smock,
Creaking my shoes on the plain masonry,
We talked it all over. It wouldn’t do to take to the shore; we couldn’t
clover, which is visited by humble-bees alone; so that whole fields of
take the raft up the stream, of course. There warn’t no way but to wait
Till honour be bought up, and no sword worn
the red clover offer in vain an abundant supply of precious nectar to
for dark, and start back in the canoe and take the chances. So we slept
But one to dance with. By heaven, I’ll steal away.
the hive-bee. Thus it might be a great advantage to the hive-bee to
I am your accessary; and so farewell.
have a slightly longer or differently constructed proboscis. On the
all day amongst the cottonwood thicket, so as to be fresh for the work,
I grow to you, and our parting is a tortur’d body.
other hand, I have found by experiment that the fertility of clover
and when we went back to the raft about dark the canoe was gone!
greatly depends on bees visiting and moving parts of the corolla, so as
We didn’t say a word for a good while. There warn’t anything to say. We
Noble heroes, my sword and yours are kin. Good sparks and lustrous, a
word, good metals. You shall find in the regiment of the Spinii one
both knowed well enough it was some more work of the rattlesnake-skin;
to push the pollen on to the stigmatic surface. Hence, again, if
humble-bees were to become rare in any country, it might be a great
Captain Spurio, with his cicatrice, an emblem of war, here on his
so what was the use to talk about it? It would only look like we was
finding fault, and that would be bound to fetch more bad luck—and keep
advantage to the red clover to have a shorter or more deeply divided
sinister cheek; it was this very sword entrench’d it. Say to him I
on fetching it, too, till we knowed enough to keep still.
tube to its corolla, so that the hive-bee could visit its flowers. Thus
live; and observe his reports for me.
I can understand how a flower and a bee might slowly become, either
By-and-by we talked about what we better do, and found there warn’t no
Mars dote on you for his novices!
simultaneously or one after the other, modified and adapted in the most
Use a more spacious ceremony to the noble lords; you have restrain’d
way but just to go along down with the raft till we got a chance to buy
yourself within the list of too cold an adieu. Be more expressive to
a canoe to go back in. We warn’t going to borrow it when there warn’t
perfect manner to each other, by the continued preservation of
them; for they wear themselves in the cap of the time; there do muster
individuals presenting mutual and slightly favourable deviations of
anybody around, the way pap would do, for that might set people after
So we shoved out after dark on the raft.
I am well aware that this doctrine of natural selection, exemplified in
true gait; eat, speak, and move, under the influence of the most
receiv’d star; and though the devil lead the measure, such are to be
Anybody that don’t believe yet that it’s foolishness to handle a
the above imaginary instances, is open to the same objections which
snake-skin, after all that that snake-skin done for us, will believe it
were at first urged against Sir Charles Lyell’s noble views on “the
followed. After them, and take a more dilated farewell.
Worthy fellows, and like to prove most sinewy sword-men.
now if they read on and see what more it done for us.
modern changes of the earth, as illustrative of geology;” but we now
very seldom hear the action, for instance, of the coast-waves, called a
The place to buy canoes is off of rafts laying up at shore. But we
[_Exeunt Bertram and Parolles._]
didn’t see no rafts laying up; so we went along during three hours and
Pardon, my lord [_kneeling_], for me and for my tidings.
trifling and insignificant cause, when applied to the excavation of
more. Well, the night got gray and ruther thick, which is the next
Then here’s a man stands that has brought his pardon.
gigantic valleys or to the formation of the longest lines of inland
I would you had kneel’d, my lord, to ask me mercy,
meanest thing to fog. You can’t tell the shape of the river, and you
cliffs. Natural selection can act only by the preservation and
And that at my bidding you could so stand up.
can’t see no distance. It got to be very late and still, and then along
accumulation of infinitesimally small inherited modifications, each
I would I had; so I had broke thy pate,
profitable to the preserved being; and as modern geology has almost
comes a steamboat up the river. We lit the lantern, and judged she
would see it. Up-stream boats didn’t generly come close to us; they go
banished such views as the excavation of a great valley by a single
But, my good lord, ’tis thus: will you be cur’d
diluvial wave, so will natural selection, if it be a true principle,
out and follow the bars and hunt for easy water under the reefs; but
No grapes, my royal fox? Yes, but you will
banish the belief of the continued creation of new organic
nights like this they bull right up the channel against the whole
My noble grapes, and if my royal fox
beings, or of any great and sudden modification in their structure.
We could hear her pounding along, but we didn’t see her good till she
Could reach them. I have seen a medicine
_On the Intercrossing of Individuals_.—I must here introduce a short
That’s able to breathe life into a stone,
was close. She aimed right for us. Often they do that and try to see
digression. In the case of animals and plants with separated sexes, it
Quicken a rock, and make you dance canary
how close they can come without touching; sometimes the wheel bites off
is of course obvious that two individuals must always unite for each
a sweep, and then the pilot sticks his head out and laughs, and thinks
With sprightly fire and motion; whose simple touch
he’s mighty smart. Well, here she comes, and we said she was going to
Is powerful to araise King Pippen, nay,
birth; but in the case of hermaphrodites this is far from obvious.
Nevertheless I am strongly inclined to believe that with all
To give great Charlemain a pen in’s hand
try and shave us; but she didn’t seem to be sheering off a bit. She was
hermaphrodites two individuals, either occasionally or habitually,
Why, doctor ‘she’! My lord, there’s one arriv’d,
a big one, and she was coming in a hurry, too, looking like a black
If you will see her. Now, by my faith and honour,
concur for the reproduction of their kind. This view, I may add, was
cloud with rows of glow-worms around it; but all of a sudden she bulged
first suggested by Andrew Knight. We shall presently see its
If seriously I may convey my thoughts
out, big and scary, with a long row of wide-open furnace doors shining
importance; but I must here treat the subject with extreme brevity,
In this my light deliverance, I have spoke
like red-hot teeth, and her monstrous bows and guards hanging right
though I have the materials prepared for an ample discussion. All
over us. There was a yell at us, and a jingling of bells to stop the
With one that in her sex, her years, profession,
engines, a powwow of cussing, and whistling of steam—and as Jim went
vertebrate animals, all insects, and some other large groups of
Wisdom, and constancy, hath amaz’d me more
animals, pair for each birth. Modern research has much diminished the
overboard on one side and I on the other, she come smashing straight
Than I dare blame my weakness. Will you see her,
number of supposed hermaphrodites, and of real hermaphrodites a large
For that is her demand, and know her business?
I dived—and I aimed to find the bottom, too, for a thirty-foot wheel
Bring in the admiration; that we with thee
had got to go over me, and I wanted it to have plenty of room. I could
number pair; that is, two individuals regularly unite for reproduction,
which is all that concerns us. But still there are many hermaphrodite
always stay under water a minute; this time I reckon I stayed under a
May spend our wonder too, or take off thine
animals which certainly do not habitually pair, and a vast majority of
By wond’ring how thou took’st it.
minute and a half. Then I bounced for the top in a hurry, for I was
nearly busting. I popped out to my armpits and blowed the water out of
Thus he his special nothing ever prologues.
plants are hermaphrodites. What reason, it may be asked, is there for
my nose, and puffed a bit. Of course there was a booming current; and
This is his majesty, say your mind to him.
supposing in these cases that two individuals ever concur in
of course that boat started her engines again ten seconds after she
reproduction? As it is impossible here to enter on details, I must
A traitor you do look like, but such traitors
trust to some general considerations alone.
stopped them, for they never cared much for raftsmen; so now she was
His majesty seldom fears; I am Cressid’s uncle,
That dare leave two together. Fare you well.
In the first place, I have collected so large a body of facts, showing,
churning along up the river, out of sight in the thick weather, though
Now, fair one, does your business follow us?
I sung out for Jim about a dozen times, but I didn’t get any answer; so
in accordance with the almost universal belief of breeders, that with
Gerard de Narbon was my father,
animals and plants a cross between different varieties, or between
I grabbed a plank that touched me while I was “treading water,” and
struck out for shore, shoving it ahead of me. But I made out to see
individuals of the same variety but of another strain, gives vigour and
In what he did profess, well found.
fertility to the offspring; and on the other hand, that _close_
The rather will I spare my praises towards him.
that the drift of the current was towards the left-hand shore, which
interbreeding diminishes vigour and fertility; that
Knowing him is enough. On his bed of death
meant that I was in a crossing; so I changed off and went that way.
Many receipts he gave me; chiefly one,
these facts alone incline me to believe that it is a general law of
It was one of these long, slanting, two-mile crossings; so I was a good
long time in getting over. I made a safe landing, and clumb up the
nature (utterly ignorant though we be of the meaning of the law) that
Which, as the dearest issue of his practice,
bank. I couldn’t see but a little ways, but I went poking along over
And of his old experience the only darling,
no organic being self-fertilises itself for an eternity of generations;
but that a cross with another individual is occasionally—perhaps at
He bade me store up as a triple eye,
rough ground for a quarter of a mile or more, and then I run across a
very long intervals—indispensable.
big old-fashioned double log-house before I noticed it. I was going to
Safer than mine own two; more dear I have so,
And hearing your high majesty is touch’d
rush by and get away, but a lot of dogs jumped out and went to howling
On the belief that this is a law of nature, we can, I think, understand
and barking at me, and I knowed better than to move another peg.
With that malignant cause, wherein the honour
several large classes of facts, such as the following, which on any
In about a minute somebody spoke out of a window without putting his
Of my dear father’s gift stands chief in power,
other view are inexplicable. Every hybridizer knows how unfavourable
exposure to wet is to the fertilisation of a flower, yet what a
I come to tender it, and my appliance,
“I don’t want nothing, sir. I only want to go along by, but the dogs
multitude of flowers have their anthers and stigmas fully exposed to
“What are you prowling around here this time of night for—hey?”
But may not be so credulous of cure,
the weather! but if an occasional cross be indispensable, the fullest
When our most learned doctors leave us, and
“I warn’t prowling around, sir, I fell overboard off of the steamboat.”
The congregated college have concluded
“Oh, you did, did you? Strike a light there, somebody. What did you say
freedom for the entrance of pollen from another individual will explain
“George Jackson, sir. I’m only a boy.”
this state of exposure, more especially as the plant’s own anthers and
That labouring art can never ransom nature
From her inaidable estate. I say we must not
“Look here, if you’re telling the truth you needn’t be afraid—nobody’ll
pistil generally stand so close together that self-fertilisation seems
hurt you. But don’t try to budge; stand right where you are. Rouse out
So stain our judgment, or corrupt our hope,
almost inevitable. Many flowers, on the other hand, have their organs
of fructification closely enclosed, as in the great papilionaceous or
Bob and Tom, some of you, and fetch the guns. George Jackson, is there
To prostitute our past-cure malady
To empirics, or to dissever so
pea-family; but in several, perhaps in all, such flowers, there is a
I heard the people stirring around in the house now, and see a light.
Our great self and our credit, to esteem
“Snatch that light away, Betsy, you old fool—ain’t you got any sense?
very curious adaptation between the structure of the flower and the
manner in which bees suck the nectar; for, in doing this, they either
A senseless help, when help past sense we deem.
Put it on the floor behind the front door. Bob, if you and Tom are
push the flower’s own pollen on the stigma, or bring pollen from
My duty then shall pay me for my pains.
“Now, George Jackson, do you know the Shepherdsons?”
another flower. So necessary are the visits of bees to papilionaceous
“No, sir; I never heard of them.”
I will no more enforce mine office on you,
flowers, that I have found, by experiments published elsewhere, that
Humbly entreating from your royal thoughts
“Well, that may be so, and it mayn’t. Now, all ready. Step forward,
their fertility is greatly diminished if these visits be prevented.
A modest one to bear me back again.
George Jackson. And mind, don’t you hurry—come mighty slow. If there’s
anybody with you, let him keep back—if he shows himself he’ll be shot.
Now, it is scarcely possible that bees should fly from flower to
I cannot give thee less, to be call’d grateful.
Thou thought’st to help me; and such thanks I give
flower, and not carry pollen from one to the other, to the great good,
Come along now. Come slow; push the door open yourself—just enough to
I didn’t hurry; I couldn’t if I’d a wanted to. I took one slow step at
as I believe, of the plant. Bees will act like a camel-hair pencil, and
As one near death to those that wish him live.
it is quite sufficient just to touch the anthers of one flower and then
But what at full I know, thou know’st no part;
a time and there warn’t a sound, only I thought I could hear my heart.
the stigma of another with the same brush to ensure fertilisation; but
I knowing all my peril, thou no art.
The dogs were as still as the humans, but they followed a little behind
What I can do can do no hurt to try,
supposed that bees would thus produce a multitude of hybrids between
me. When I got to the three log doorsteps I heard them unlocking and
unbarring and unbolting. I put my hand on the door and pushed it a
distinct species; for if you bring on the same brush a plant’s own
Since you set up your rest ’gainst remedy.
little and a little more till somebody said, “There, that’s enough—put
He that of greatest works is finisher
pollen and pollen from another species, the former will have such a
Oft does them by the weakest minister.
prepotent effect, that it will invariably and completely destroy, as
your head in.” I done it, but I judged they would take it off.
So holy writ in babes hath judgment shown,
The candle was on the floor, and there they all was, looking at me, and
has been shown by Gärtner, any influence from the foreign pollen.
me at them, for about a quarter of a minute: Three big men with guns
When the stamens of a flower suddenly spring towards the pistil, or
When judges have been babes. Great floods have flown
slowly move one after the other towards it, the contrivance seems
From simple sources, and great seas have dried
pointed at me, which made me wince, I tell you; the oldest, gray and
adapted solely to ensure self-fertilisation; and no doubt it is useful
When miracles have by the great’st been denied.
about sixty, the other two thirty or more—all of them fine and
for this end: but, the agency of insects is often required to cause the
Oft expectation fails, and most oft there
handsome—and the sweetest old gray-headed lady, and back of her two
Where most it promises; and oft it hits
young women which I couldn’t see right well. The old gentleman says:
stamens to spring forward, as Kölreuter has shown to be the case with
the barberry; and curiously in this very genus, which seems to have a
Where hope is coldest, and despair most fits.
“There; I reckon it’s all right. Come in.”
special contrivance for self-fertilisation, it is well known that if
As soon as I was in the old gentleman he locked the door and barred it
I must not hear thee. Fare thee well, kind maid.
Thy pains, not us’d, must by thyself be paid;
very closely-allied forms or varieties are planted near each other, it
and bolted it, and told the young men to come in with their guns, and
is hardly possible to raise pure seedlings, so largely do they
Proffers, not took, reap thanks for their reward.
they all went in a big parlor that had a new rag carpet on the floor,
naturally cross. In many other cases, far from there being any aids for
Inspired merit so by breath is barr’d.
and got together in a corner that was out of the range of the front
It is not so with Him that all things knows
windows—there warn’t none on the side. They held the candle, and took a
self-fertilisation, there are special contrivances, as I could show
good look at me, and all said, “Why, _he_ ain’t a Shepherdson—no, there
As ’tis with us that square our guess by shows;
from the writings of C. C. Sprengel and from my own observations, which
effectually prevent the stigma receiving pollen from its own flower:
But most it is presumption in us when
ain’t any Shepherdson about him.” Then the old man said he hoped I
for instance, in Lobelia fulgens, there is a really beautiful and
The help of heaven we count the act of men.
wouldn’t mind being searched for arms, because he didn’t mean no harm
Dear sir, to my endeavours give consent;
by it—it was only to make sure. So he didn’t pry into my pockets, but
elaborate contrivance by which every one of the infinitely numerous
pollen-granules are swept out of the conjoined anthers of each flower,
Of heaven, not me, make an experiment.
only felt outside with his hands, and said it was all right. He told me
I am not an impostor, that proclaim
to make myself easy and at home, and tell all about myself; but the old
before the stigma of that individual flower is ready to receive them;
“Why, bless you, Saul, the poor thing’s as wet as he can be; and don’t
and as this flower is never visited, at least in my garden, by insects,
Myself against the level of mine aim,
it never sets a seed, though by placing pollen from one flower on the
But know I think, and think I know most sure,
you reckon it may be he’s hungry?”
My art is not past power nor you past cure.
stigma of another, I raised plenty of seedlings; and whilst another
“True for you, Rachel—I forgot.”
Art thou so confident? Within what space
species of Lobelia growing close by, which is visited by bees, seeds
“Betsy” (this was a nigger woman), “you fly around and get him
something to eat as quick as you can, poor thing; and one of you girls
The greatest grace lending grace.
freely. In very many other cases, though there be no special mechanical
contrivance to prevent the stigma of a flower receiving its own pollen,
go and wake up Buck and tell him—oh, here he is himself. Buck, take
Ere twice the horses of the sun shall bring
C. C. Sprengel has shown, and as I can confirm, either the anthers
this little stranger and get the wet clothes off from him and dress him
Their fiery torcher his diurnal ring,
Ere twice in murk and occidental damp
up in some of yours that’s dry.”
burst before the stigma is ready for fertilisation, or the stigma is
ready before the pollen of that flower is ready, so that these plants
Buck looked about as old as me—thirteen or fourteen or along there,
Moist Hesperus hath quench’d her sleepy lamp;
have in fact separated sexes, and must habitually be crossed. How
though he was a little bigger than me. He hadn’t on anything but a
Or four and twenty times the pilot’s glass
strange are these facts! How strange that the pollen and stigmatic
shirt, and he was very frowzy-headed. He came in gaping and digging one
Hath told the thievish minutes how they pass;
What is infirm from your sound parts shall fly,
surface of the same flower, though placed so close together, as if for
fist into his eyes, and he was dragging a gun along with the other one.
“Ain’t they no Shepherdsons around?”
the very purpose of self-fertilisation, should in so many cases be
Health shall live free, and sickness freely die.
They said, no, ’twas a false alarm.
Upon thy certainty and confidence
mutually useless to each other! How simply are these facts explained on
A strumpet’s boldness, a divulged shame,
“Well,” he says, “if they’d a ben some, I reckon I’d a got one.”
the view of an occasional cross with a distinct individual being
advantageous or indispensable!
Traduc’d by odious ballads; my maiden’s name
They all laughed, and Bob says:
“Why, Buck, they might have scalped us all, you’ve been so slow in
If several varieties of the cabbage, radish, onion, and of some other
Sear’d otherwise; nay worse of worst extended
“Well, nobody come after me, and it ain’t right I’m always kept down; I
With vilest torture, let my life be ended.
plants, be allowed to seed near each other, a large majority, as I have
“Never mind, Buck, my boy,” says the old man, “you’ll have show enough,
Methinks in thee some blessed spirit doth speak
found, of the seedlings thus raised will turn out mongrels: for
His powerful sound within an organ weak;
all in good time, don’t you fret about that. Go ’long with you now, and
instance, I raised 233 seedling cabbages from some plants of different
When we got up-stairs to his room he got me a coarse shirt and a
varieties growing near each other, and of these only 78 were true to
And what impossibility would slay
In common sense, sense saves another way.
roundabout and pants of his, and I put them on. While I was at it he
their kind, and some even of these were not perfectly true. Yet the
Thy life is dear, for all that life can rate
asked me what my name was, but before I could tell him he started to
pistil of each cabbage-flower is surrounded not only by its own six
stamens, but by those of the many other flowers on the same plant. How,
tell me about a bluejay and a young rabbit he had catched in the woods
Worth name of life in thee hath estimate:
then, comes it that such a vast number of the seedlings are
day before yesterday, and he asked me where Moses was when the candle
Youth, beauty, wisdom, courage, all
went out. I said I didn’t know; I hadn’t heard about it before, no way.
mongrelized? I suspect that it must arise from the pollen of a distinct
That happiness and prime can happy call.
“How’m I going to guess,” says I, “when I never heard tell of it
_variety_ having a prepotent effect over a flower’s own pollen; and
Thou this to hazard needs must intimate
Skill infinite, or monstrous desperate.
“But you can guess, can’t you? It’s just as easy.”
that this is part of the general law of good being derived from the
“I don’t know where he was,” says I; “where was he?”
Sweet practiser, thy physic I will try,
intercrossing of distinct individuals of the same species. When
“Why, he was in the _dark!_ That’s where he was!”
distinct _species_ are crossed the case is directly the reverse, for a
That ministers thine own death if I die.
plant’s own pollen is always prepotent over foreign pollen; but to this
If I break time, or flinch in property
“Well, if you knowed where he was, what did you ask me for?”
subject we shall return in a future chapter.
“Why, blame it, it’s a riddle, don’t you see? Say, how long are you
Of what I spoke, unpitied let me die,
And well deserv’d. Not helping, death’s my fee;
In the case of a gigantic tree covered with innumerable flowers, it may
going to stay here? You got to stay always. We can just have booming
times—they don’t have no school now. Do you own a dog? I’ve got a
be objected that pollen could seldom be carried from tree to tree, and
But if I help, what do you promise me?
dog—and he’ll go in the river and bring out chips that you throw in. Do
to flower on the same tree, and that flowers on the same tree can be
Ay, by my sceptre and my hopes of heaven.
considered as distinct individuals only in a limited sense. I believe
Then shalt thou give me, with thy kingly hand
you like to comb up Sundays, and all that kind of foolishness? You bet
this objection to be valid, but that nature has largely provided
What husband in thy power I will command:
I don’t, but ma she makes me. Confound these ole britches! I reckon I’d
against it by giving to trees a strong tendency to bear flowers with
Exempted be from me the arrogance
better put ’em on, but I’d ruther not, it’s so warm. Are you all ready?
All right. Come along, old hoss.”
separated sexes. When the sexes are separated, although the male and
To choose from forth the royal blood of France,
Cold corn-pone, cold corn-beef, butter and buttermilk—that is what they
female flowers may be produced on the same tree, we can see that pollen
My low and humble name to propagate
must be regularly carried from flower to flower; and this will give a
had for me down there, and there ain’t nothing better that ever I’ve
With any branch or image of thy state;
come across yet. Buck and his ma and all of them smoked cob pipes,
But such a one, thy vassal, whom I know
better chance of pollen being occasionally carried from tree to tree.
except the nigger woman, which was gone, and the two young women. They
That trees belonging to all Orders have their sexes more often
Is free for me to ask, thee to bestow.
separated than other plants, I find to be the case in this country; and
all smoked and talked, and I eat and talked. The young women had quilts
Here is my hand; the premises observ’d,
around them, and their hair down their backs. They all asked me
Thy will by my performance shall be serv’d;
at my request Dr. Hooker tabulated the trees of New Zealand, and Dr.
Asa Gray those of the United States, and the result was as I
So make the choice of thy own time, for I,
questions, and I told them how pap and me and all the family was living
Thy resolv’d patient, on thee still rely.
anticipated. On the other hand, Dr. Hooker has recently informed me
on a little farm down at the bottom of Arkansaw, and my sister Mary Ann
More should I question thee, and more I must,
run off and got married and never was heard of no more, and Bill went
that he finds that the rule does not hold in Australia; and I have made
Though more to know could not be more to trust:
to hunt them and he warn’t heard of no more, and Tom and Mort died, and
these few remarks on the sexes of trees simply to call attention to the
then there warn’t nobody but just me and pap left, and he was just
From whence thou cam’st, how tended on; but rest
Turning for a very brief space to animals: on the land there are some
hermaphrodites, as land-mollusca and earth-worms; but these all pair.
trimmed down to nothing, on account of his troubles; so when he died I
Unquestion’d welcome, and undoubted bless’d.
took what there was left, because the farm didn’t belong to us, and
Give me some help here, ho! If thou proceed
As yet I have not found a single case of a terrestrial animal which
started up the river, deck passage, and fell overboard; and that was
fertilises itself. We can understand this remarkable fact, which offers
As high as word, my deed shall match thy deed.
how I come to be here. So they said I could have a home there as long
so strong a contrast with terrestrial plants, on the view of an
SCENE II. Rossillon. A room in the Countess’s palace.
as I wanted it. Then it was most daylight and everybody went to bed,
occasional cross being indispensable, by considering the medium in
Come on, sir; I shall now put you to the height of your breeding.
which terrestrial animals live, and the nature of the fertilising
I will show myself highly fed and lowly taught. I know my business is
and I went to bed with Buck, and when I waked up in the morning, drat
element; for we know of no means, analogous to the action of insects
it all, I had forgot what my name was. So I laid there about an hour
To the court! Why, what place make you special, when you put off that
with such contempt? But to the court!
trying to think, and when Buck waked up I says:
and of the wind in the case of plants, by which an occasional cross
“I bet you can’t spell my name,” says I.
Truly, madam, if God have lent a man any manners, he may easily put it
could be effected with terrestrial animals without the concurrence of
two individuals. Of aquatic animals, there are many self-fertilising
“I bet you what you dare I can,” says he.
off at court: he that cannot make a leg, put off’s cap, kiss his hand,
hermaphrodites; but here currents in the water offer an obvious means
and say nothing, has neither leg, hands, lip, nor cap; and indeed such
“All right,” says I, “go ahead.”
a fellow, to say precisely, were not for the court; but for me, I have
for an occasional cross. And, as in the case of flowers, I have as yet
“G-e-o-r-g-e J-a-x-o-n—there now,” he says.
Marry, that’s a bountiful answer that fits all questions.
“Well,” says I, “you done it, but I didn’t think you could. It ain’t no
failed, after consultation with one of the highest authorities, namely,
Professor Huxley, to discover a single case of an hermaphrodite animal
It is like a barber’s chair, that fits all buttocks—the pin-buttock,
slouch of a name to spell—right off without studying.”
with the organs of reproduction so perfectly enclosed within the body,
I set it down, private, because somebody might want _me_ to spell it
the quatch-buttock, the brawn-buttock, or any buttock.
that access from without and the occasional influence of a distinct
next, and so I wanted to be handy with it and rattle it off like I was
Will your answer serve fit to all questions?
As fit as ten groats is for the hand of an attorney, as your French
individual can be shown to be physically impossible. Cirripedes long
It was a mighty nice family, and a mighty nice house, too. I hadn’t
crown for your taffety punk, as Tib’s rush for Tom’s forefinger, as a
seen no house out in the country before that was so nice and had so
appeared to me to present a case of very great difficulty under this
point of view; but I have been enabled, by a fortunate chance,
pancake for Shrove-Tuesday, a morris for May-day, as the nail to his
much style. It didn’t have an iron latch on the front door, nor a
wooden one with a buckskin string, but a brass knob to turn, the same
elsewhere to prove that two individuals, though both are
hole, the cuckold to his horn, as a scolding quean to a wrangling
knave, as the nun’s lip to the friar’s mouth; nay, as the pudding to
as houses in town. There warn’t no bed in the parlor, nor a sign of a
self-fertilising hermaphrodites, do sometimes cross.
bed; but heaps of parlors in towns has beds in them. There was a big
It must have struck most naturalists as a strange anomaly that, in the
Have you, I say, an answer of such fitness for all questions?
From below your duke to beneath your constable, it will fit any
fireplace that was bricked on the bottom, and the bricks was kept clean
case of both animals and plants, species of the same family and even of
It must be an answer of most monstrous size that must fit all demands.
the same genus, though agreeing closely with each other in almost their
and red by pouring water on them and scrubbing them with another brick;
But a trifle neither, in good faith, if the learned should speak truth
whole organisation, yet are not rarely, some of them hermaphrodites,
sometimes they wash them over with red water-paint that they call
Spanish-brown, same as they do in town. They had big brass dog-irons
and some of them unisexual. But if, in fact, all hermaphrodites do
of it. Here it is, and all that belongs to’t. Ask me if I am a
occasionally intercross with other individuals, the difference between
courtier; it shall do you no harm to learn.
that could hold up a saw-log. There was a clock on the middle of the
hermaphrodites and unisexual species, as far as function is concerned,
To be young again, if we could: I will be a fool in question, hoping to
mantelpiece, with a picture of a town painted on the bottom half of the
glass front, and a round place in the middle of it for the sun, and you
From these several considerations and from the many special facts which
be the wiser by your answer. I pray you, sir, are you a courtier?
O Lord, sir! There’s a simple putting off. More, more, a hundred of
could see the pendulum swinging behind it. It was beautiful to hear
I have collected, but which I am not here able to give, I am strongly
that clock tick; and sometimes when one of these peddlers had been
Sir, I am a poor friend of yours, that loves you.
inclined to suspect that, both in the vegetable and animal kingdoms, an
along and scoured her up and got her in good shape, she would start in
O Lord, sir! Thick, thick; spare not me.
occasional intercross with a distinct individual is a law of nature. I
am well aware that there are, on this view, many cases of difficulty,
and strike a hundred and fifty before she got tuckered out. They
I think, sir, you can eat none of this homely meat.
O Lord, sir! Nay, put me to’t, I warrant you.
wouldn’t took any money for her.
some of which I am trying to investigate. Finally then, we may conclude
that in many organic beings, a cross between two individuals is an
You were lately whipp’d, sir, as I think.
Well, there was a big outlandish parrot on each side of the clock, made
out of something like chalk, and painted up gaudy. By one of the
Do you cry ‘O Lord, sir!’ at your whipping, and ‘spare not me’? Indeed
obvious necessity for each birth; in many others it occurs perhaps only
parrots was a cat made of crockery, and a crockery dog by the other;
your ‘O Lord, sir!’ is very sequent to your whipping. You would answer
at long intervals; but in none, as I suspect, can self-fertilisation go
very well to a whipping, if you were but bound to’t.
_Circumstances favourable to Natural Selection_.—This
and when you pressed down on them they squeaked, but didn’t open their
I ne’er had worse luck in my life in my ‘O Lord, sir!’ I see things may
is an extremely intricate subject. A large amount of inheritable and
mouths nor look different nor interested. They squeaked through
serve long, but not serve ever.
diversified variability is favourable, but I believe mere individual
underneath. There was a couple of big wild-turkey-wing fans spread out
I play the noble housewife with the time, to entertain it so merrily
differences suffice for the work. A large number of individuals, by
behind those things. On the table in the middle of the room was a kind
O Lord, sir! Why, there’t serves well again.
giving a better chance for the appearance within any given period of
of a lovely crockery basket that had apples and oranges and peaches and
grapes piled up in it, which was much redder and yellower and prettier
An end, sir! To your business. Give Helen this,
profitable variations, will compensate for a lesser amount of
than real ones is, but they warn’t real because you could see where
And urge her to a present answer back.
variability in each individual, and is, I believe, an extremely
pieces had got chipped off and showed the white chalk, or whatever it
Commend me to my kinsmen and my son.
important element of success. Though nature grants vast periods of time
This table had a cover made out of beautiful oilcloth, with a red and
Not much commendation to them?
for the work of natural selection, she does not grant an indefinite
period; for as all organic beings are striving, it may be said, to
blue spread-eagle painted on it, and a painted border all around. It
Not much employment for you. You understand me?
seize on each place in the economy of nature, if any one species does
Most fruitfully. I am there before my legs.
come all the way from Philadelphia, they said. There was some books,
SCENE III. Paris. The King’s palace.
too, piled up perfectly exact, on each corner of the table. One was a
not become modified and improved in a corresponding degree with its
competitors, it will soon be exterminated.
big family Bible full of pictures. One was Pilgrim’s Progress, about a
Enter Bertram, Lafew and Parolles.
They say miracles are past; and we have our philosophical persons to
man that left his family, it didn’t say why. I read considerable in it
In man’s methodical selection, a breeder selects for some definite
now and then. The statements was interesting, but tough. Another was
object, and free intercrossing will wholly stop his work. But when many
make modern and familiar things supernatural and causeless. Hence is it
men, without intending to alter the breed, have a nearly common
that we make trifles of terrors, ensconcing ourselves into seeming
Friendship’s Offering, full of beautiful stuff and poetry; but I didn’t
read the poetry. Another was Henry Clay’s Speeches, and another was Dr.
knowledge when we should submit ourselves to an unknown fear.
standard of perfection, and all try to get and breed from the best
animals, much improvement and modification surely but slowly follow
Why, ’tis the rarest argument of wonder that hath shot out in our
Gunn’s Family Medicine, which told you all about what to do if a body
was sick or dead. There was a hymn book, and a lot of other books. And
from this unconscious process of selection, notwithstanding a large
To be relinquish’d of the artists,—
So I say; both of Galen and Paracelsus.
amount of crossing with inferior animals. Thus it will be in nature;
there was nice split-bottom chairs, and perfectly sound, too—not bagged
for within a confined area, with some place in its polity not so
Of all the learned and authentic fellows,—
down in the middle and busted, like an old basket.
perfectly occupied as might be, natural selection will always tend to
Why, there ’tis; so say I too.
They had pictures hung on the walls—mainly Washingtons and Lafayettes,
preserve all the individuals varying in the right direction, though in
and battles, and Highland Marys, and one called “Signing the
Right; as ’twere a man assur’d of a—
different degrees, so as better to fill up the unoccupied place. But if
Uncertain life and sure death.
Declaration.” There was some that they called crayons, which one of the
the area be large, its several districts will almost certainly present
Just; you say well. So would I have said.
daughters which was dead made her own self when she was only fifteen
different conditions of life; and then if natural selection be
years old. They was different from any pictures I ever see
I may truly say, it is a novelty to the world.
It is indeed; if you will have it in showing, you shall read it in what
before—blacker, mostly, than is common. One was a woman in a slim black
modifying and improving a species in the several districts, there will
dress, belted small under the armpits, with bulges like a cabbage in
A showing of a heavenly effect in an earthly actor.
be intercrossing with the other individuals of the same species on the
the middle of the sleeves, and a large black scoop-shovel bonnet with a
confines of each. And in this case the effects of intercrossing can
That’s it; I would have said the very same.
Why, your dolphin is not lustier; fore me, I speak in respect—
black veil, and white slim ankles crossed about with black tape, and
by natural selection always tending to modify all the individuals in
each district in exactly the same manner to the conditions of each; for
Nay, ’tis strange, ’tis very strange; that is the brief and the tedious
very wee black slippers, like a chisel, and she was leaning pensive on
of it; and he’s of a most facinerious spirit that will not acknowledge
a tombstone on her right elbow, under a weeping willow, and her other
in a continuous area, the conditions will generally graduate away
insensibly from one district to another. The intercrossing will most
And debile minister, great power, great transcendence, which should
hand hanging down her side holding a white handkerchief and a reticule,
and underneath the picture it said “Shall I Never See Thee More Alas.”
affect those animals which unite for each birth, which wander much, and
indeed give us a further use to be made than alone the recov’ry of the
Another one was a young lady with her hair all combed up straight to
I would have said it; you say well. Here comes the king.
which do not breed at a very quick rate. Hence in animals of this
Enter King, Helena and Attendants.
nature, for instance in birds, varieties will generally be confined to
the top of her head, and knotted there in front of a comb like a
separated countries; and this I believe to be the case. In
Lustique, as the Dutchman says. I’ll like a maid the better, whilst I
chair-back, and she was crying into a handkerchief and had a dead bird
have a tooth in my head. Why, he’s able to lead her a coranto.
laying on its back in her other hand with its heels up, and underneath
hermaphrodite organisms which cross only occasionally, and likewise in
the picture it said “I Shall Never Hear Thy Sweet Chirrup More Alas.”
_Mor du vinager!_ is not this Helen?
animals which unite for each birth, but which wander little and which
There was one where a young lady was at a window looking up at the
Go, call before me all the lords in court.
can increase at a very rapid rate, a new and improved variety might be
quickly formed on any one spot, and might there maintain itself in a
moon, and tears running down her cheeks; and she had an open letter in
Sit, my preserver, by thy patient’s side,
And with this healthful hand, whose banish’d sense
one hand with black sealing wax showing on one edge of it, and she was
body, so that whatever intercrossing took place would be chiefly
mashing a locket with a chain to it against her mouth, and underneath
Thou has repeal’d, a second time receive
between the individuals of the same new variety. A local variety when
The confirmation of my promis’d gift,
once thus formed might subsequently slowly spread to other districts.
the picture it said “And Art Thou Gone Yes Thou Art Gone Alas.” These
Fair maid, send forth thine eye. This youthful parcel
was all nice pictures, I reckon, but I didn’t somehow seem to take to
On the above principle, nurserymen always prefer getting seed from a
Of noble bachelors stand at my bestowing,
them, because if ever I was down a little they always give me the
large body of plants of the same variety, as the chance of
fan-tods. Everybody was sorry she died, because she had laid out a lot
intercrossing with other varieties is thus lessened.
O’er whom both sovereign power and father’s voice
Even in the case of slow-breeding animals, which unite for each birth,
I have to use. Thy frank election make;
more of these pictures to do, and a body could see by what she had done
Thou hast power to choose, and they none to forsake.
what they had lost. But I reckoned that with her disposition she was
we must not overrate the effects of intercrosses in retarding natural
having a better time in the graveyard. She was at work on what they
selection; for I can bring a considerable catalogue of facts, showing
To each of you one fair and virtuous mistress
said was her greatest picture when she took sick, and every day and
that within the same area, varieties of the same animal can long remain
Fall, when love please! Marry, to each but one!
distinct, from haunting different stations, from breeding at slightly
I’d give bay curtal and his furniture
every night it was her prayer to be allowed to live till she got it
different seasons, or from varieties of the same kind preferring to
My mouth no more were broken than these boys’,
done, but she never got the chance. It was a picture of a young woman
Not one of those but had a noble father.
Intercrossing plays a very important part in nature in keeping the
in a long white gown, standing on the rail of a bridge all ready to
jump off, with her hair all down her back, and looking up to the moon,
Heaven hath through me restor’d the king to health.
individuals of the same species, or of the same variety, true and
We understand it, and thank heaven for you.
with the tears running down her face, and she had two arms folded
uniform in character. It will obviously thus act far more efficiently
across her breast, and two arms stretched out in front, and two more
which unite for each birth; but I have already attempted to show that
I am a simple maid, and therein wealthiest
reaching up towards the moon—and the idea was to see which pair would
we have reason to believe that occasional intercrosses take place with
That I protest I simply am a maid.
look best, and then scratch out all the other arms; but, as I was
all animals and with all plants. Even if these take place only at long
Please it, your majesty, I have done already.
intervals, I am convinced that the young thus produced will gain so
saying, she died before she got her mind made up, and now they kept
The blushes in my cheeks thus whisper me:
“We blush that thou shouldst choose; but, be refused,
much in vigour and fertility over the offspring from long-continued
this picture over the head of the bed in her room, and every time her
birthday come they hung flowers on it. Other times it was hid with a
Let the white death sit on thy cheek for ever,
self-fertilisation, that they will have a better chance of surviving
and propagating their kind; and thus, in the long run, the influence of
little curtain. The young woman in the picture had a kind of a nice
We’ll ne’er come there again.”
intercrosses, even at rare intervals, will be great. If there exist
sweet face, but there was so many arms it made her look too spidery,
Who shuns thy love shuns all his love in me.
This young girl kept a scrap-book when she was alive, and used to paste
Now, Dian, from thy altar do I fly,
organic beings which never intercross, uniformity of character can be
retained amongst them, as long as their conditions of life remain the
And to imperial Love, that god most high,
obituaries and accidents and cases of patient suffering in it out of
same, only through the principle of inheritance, and through natural
Do my sighs stream. [_To first Lord._] Sir, will you hear my suit?
the _Presbyterian Observer_, and write poetry after them out of her own
selection destroying any which depart from the proper type; but if
head. It was very good poetry. This is what she wrote about a boy by
Thanks, sir; all the rest is mute.
the name of Stephen Dowling Bots that fell down a well and was
I had rather be in this choice than throw ames-ace for my life.
their conditions of life change and they undergo modification,
[_To second Lord._] The honour, sir, that flames in your fair eyes,
ODE TO STEPHEN DOWLING BOTS, DEC’D
uniformity of character can be given to their modified offspring,
solely by natural selection preserving the same favourable variations.
And did the sad hearts thicken,
Before I speak, too threat’ningly replies.
Though sad hearts round him thickened,
Love make your fortunes twenty times above
Isolation, also, is an important element in the process of natural
’Twas not from sickness’ shots.
Her that so wishes, and her humble love!
selection. In a confined or isolated area, if not very large, the
No whooping-cough did rack his frame,
Which great Love grant; and so I take my leave.
organic and inorganic conditions of life will generally be in a great
degree uniform; so that natural selection will tend to modify all the
Not these impaired the sacred name
Do all they deny her? An they were sons of mine I’d have them whipp’d;
or I would send them to th’ Turk to make eunuchs of.
individuals of a varying species throughout the area in the same manner
Despised love struck not with woe
Nor stomach troubles laid him low,
[_To third Lord._] Be not afraid that I your hand should take;
in relation to the same conditions. Intercrosses, also, with the
individuals of the same species, which otherwise would have inhabited
I’ll never do you wrong for your own sake.
O no. Then list with tearful eye,
the surrounding and differently circumstanced districts, will be
Blessing upon your vows, and in your bed
His soul did from this cold world fly
prevented. But isolation probably acts more efficiently in checking the
They got him out and emptied him;
Find fairer fortune, if you ever wed!
These boys are boys of ice, they’ll none have her. Sure, they are
His spirit was gone for to sport aloft
immigration of better adapted organisms, after any physical change,
such as of climate or elevation of the land, etc.; and thus new places
In the realms of the good and great.
bastards to the English; the French ne’er got ’em.
in the natural economy of the country are left open for the old
[_To fourth Lord._] You are too young, too happy, and too good,
If Emmeline Grangerford could make poetry like that before she was
inhabitants to struggle for, and become adapted to, through
fourteen, there ain’t no telling what she could a done by-and-by. Buck
To make yourself a son out of my blood.
said she could rattle off poetry like nothing. She didn’t ever have to
There’s one grape yet. I am sure thy father drank wine. But if thou
in their structure and constitution. Lastly, isolation, by checking
stop to think. He said she would slap down a line, and if she couldn’t
beest not an ass, I am a youth of fourteen; I have known thee already.
immigration and consequently competition, will give time for any new
[_To Bertram._] I dare not say I take you, but I give
find anything to rhyme with it would just scratch it out and slap down
variety to be slowly improved; and this may sometimes be of importance
Me and my service, ever whilst I live,
in the production of new species. If, however, an isolated area be very
another one, and go ahead. She warn’t particular; she could write about
Into your guiding power. This is the man.
anything you choose to give her to write about just so it was sadful.
small, either from being surrounded by barriers, or from having very
peculiar physical conditions, the total number of the individuals
Every time a man died, or a woman died, or a child died, she would be
Why, then, young Bertram, take her; she’s thy wife.
supported on it will necessarily be very small; and fewness of
on hand with her “tribute” before he was cold. She called them
My wife, my liege! I shall beseech your highness,
tributes. The neighbors said it was the doctor first, then Emmeline,
In such a business give me leave to use
individuals will greatly retard the production of new species through
But never hope to know why I should marry her.
natural selection, by decreasing the chance of the appearance of
then the undertaker—the undertaker never got in ahead of Emmeline but
Thou know’st she has rais’d me from my sickly bed.
once, and then she hung fire on a rhyme for the dead person’s name,
If we turn to nature to test the truth of these remarks, and look at
which was Whistler. She warn’t ever the same after that; she never
any small isolated area, such as an oceanic island, although the total
But follows it, my lord, to bring me down
number of the species inhabiting it, will be found to be small, as we
Must answer for your raising? I know her well;
complained, but she kinder pined away and did not live long. Poor
She had her breeding at my father’s charge:
shall see in our chapter on geographical distribution; yet of these
thing, many’s the time I made myself go up to the little room that used
to be hers and get out her poor old scrap-book and read in it when her
species a very large proportion are endemic,—that is, have been
A poor physician’s daughter my wife! Disdain
pictures had been aggravating me and I had soured on her a little. I
produced there, and nowhere else. Hence an oceanic island at first
’Tis only title thou disdain’st in her, the which
sight seems to have been highly favourable for the production of new
I can build up. Strange is it that our bloods,
liked all that family, dead ones and all, and warn’t going to let
anything come between us. Poor Emmeline made poetry about all the dead
species. But we may thus greatly deceive ourselves, for to ascertain
Of colour, weight, and heat, pour’d all together,
Would quite confound distinction, yet stands off
people when she was alive, and it didn’t seem right that there warn’t
whether a small isolated area, or a large open area like a continent,
has been most favourable for the production of new organic forms, we
nobody to make some about her now she was gone; so I tried to sweat out
In differences so mighty. If she be
a verse or two myself, but I couldn’t seem to make it go somehow. They
ought to make the comparison within equal times; and this we are
All that is virtuous, save what thou dislik’st,
Although I do not doubt that isolation is of considerable importance in
A poor physician’s daughter,—thou dislik’st—
kept Emmeline’s room trim and nice, and all the things fixed in it just
the way she liked to have them when she was alive, and nobody ever
the production of new species, on the whole I am inclined to believe
Of virtue for the name. But do not so.
From lowest place when virtuous things proceed,
slept there. The old lady took care of the room herself, though there
that largeness of area is of more importance, more especially in the
production of species, which will prove capable of enduring for a long
was plenty of niggers, and she sewed there a good deal and read her
The place is dignified by the doer’s deed.
Well, as I was saying about the parlor, there was beautiful curtains on
Where great additions swell’s, and virtue none,
period, and of spreading widely. Throughout a great and open area, not
only will there be a better chance of favourable variations arising
the windows: white, with pictures painted on them of castles with vines
It is a dropsied honour. Good alone
all down the walls, and cattle coming down to drink. There was a little
from the large number of individuals of the same species
Is good without a name; vileness is so:
there supported, but the conditions of life are infinitely complex from
old piano, too, that had tin pans in it, I reckon, and nothing was ever
The property by what it is should go,
the large number of already existing species; and if some of these many
so lovely as to hear the young ladies sing “The Last Link is Broken”
Not by the title. She is young, wise, fair;
species become modified and improved, others will have to be improved
and play “The Battle of Prague” on it. The walls of all the rooms was
In these to nature she’s immediate heir;
And these breed honour: that is honour’s scorn
plastered, and most had carpets on the floors, and the whole house was
in a corresponding degree or they will be exterminated. Each new form,
It was a double house, and the big open place betwixt them was roofed
also, as soon as it has been much improved, will be able to spread over
Which challenges itself as honour’s born,
and floored, and sometimes the table was set there in the middle of the
the open and continuous area, and will thus come into competition with
And is not like the sire. Honours thrive
When rather from our acts we them derive
many others. Hence more new places will be formed, and the competition
day, and it was a cool, comfortable place. Nothing couldn’t be better.
And warn’t the cooking good, and just bushels of it too!
Than our fore-goers. The mere word’s a slave,
to fill them will be more severe, on a large than on a small and
Col. Grangerford was a gentleman, you see. He was a gentleman all over;
isolated area. Moreover, great areas, though now continuous, owing to
Debauch’d on every tomb, on every grave
and so was his family. He was well born, as the saying is, and that’s
oscillations of level, will often have recently existed in a broken
A lying trophy, and as oft is dumb
condition, so that the good effects of isolation will generally, to a
worth as much in a man as it is in a horse, so the Widow Douglas said,
Where dust and damn’d oblivion is the tomb
Of honour’d bones indeed. What should be said?
and nobody ever denied that she was of the first aristocracy in our
certain extent, have concurred. Finally, I conclude that, although
small isolated areas probably have been in some respects highly
If thou canst like this creature as a maid,
town; and pap he always said it, too, though he warn’t no more quality
favourable for the production of new species, yet that the course of
I can create the rest. Virtue and she
than a mudcat himself. Col. Grangerford was very tall and very slim,
Is her own dower; honour and wealth from me.
and had a darkish-paly complexion, not a sign of red in it anywheres;
modification will generally have been more rapid on large areas; and
what is more important, that the new forms produced on large areas,
he was clean shaved every morning all over his thin face, and he had
I cannot love her, nor will strive to do ’t.
the thinnest kind of lips, and the thinnest kind of nostrils, and a
which already have been victorious over many competitors, will be those
Thou wrong’st thyself, if thou shouldst strive to choose.
That you are well restor’d, my lord, I am glad.
high nose, and heavy eyebrows, and the blackest kind of eyes, sunk so
that will spread most widely, will give rise to most new varieties and
deep back that they seemed like they was looking out of caverns at you,
species, and will thus play an important part in the changing history
My honour’s at the stake, which to defeat,
We can, perhaps, on these views, understand some facts which will be
I must produce my power. Here, take her hand,
as you may say. His forehead was high, and his hair was black and
straight and hung to his shoulders. His hands was long and thin, and
Proud scornful boy, unworthy this good gift,
again alluded to in our chapter on geographical distribution; for
instance, that the productions of the smaller continent of Australia
That dost in vile misprision shackle up
every day of his life he put on a clean shirt and a full suit from head
to foot made out of linen so white it hurt your eyes to look at it; and
My love and her desert; that canst not dream
have formerly yielded, and apparently are now yielding, before those of
the larger Europæo-Asiatic area. Thus, also, it is that continental
on Sundays he wore a blue tail-coat with brass buttons on it. He
We, poising us in her defective scale,
carried a mahogany cane with a silver head to it. There warn’t no
Shall weigh thee to the beam; that wilt not know
productions have everywhere become so largely naturalised on islands.
frivolishness about him, not a bit, and he warn’t ever loud. He was as
It is in us to plant thine honour where
On a small island, the race for life will have been less severe, and
kind as he could be—you could feel that, you know, and so you had
We please to have it grow. Check thy contempt;
there will have been less modification and less extermination.
confidence. Sometimes he smiled, and it was good to see; but when he
Obey our will, which travails in thy good;
Hence, perhaps, it comes that the flora of Madeira, according to Oswald
Heer, resembles the extinct tertiary flora of Europe. All fresh-water
Believe not thy disdain, but presently
straightened himself up like a liberty-pole, and the lightning begun to
basins, taken together, make a small area compared with that of the sea
Do thine own fortunes that obedient right
flicker out from under his eyebrows, you wanted to climb a tree first,
or of the land; and, consequently, the competition between fresh-water
Which both thy duty owes and our power claims;
and find out what the matter was afterwards. He didn’t ever have to
Or I will throw thee from my care for ever
tell anybody to mind their manners—everybody was always good-mannered
productions will have been less severe than elsewhere; new forms will
have been more slowly formed, and old forms more slowly exterminated.
Into the staggers and the careless lapse
where he was. Everybody loved to have him around, too; he was sunshine
most always—I mean he made it seem like good weather. When he turned
Of youth and ignorance; both my revenge and hate
And it is in fresh water that we find seven genera of Ganoid fishes,
into a cloudbank it was awful dark for half a minute, and that was
Loosing upon thee in the name of justice,
remnants of a once preponderant order: and in fresh water we find some
Without all terms of pity. Speak! Thine answer!
enough; there wouldn’t nothing go wrong again for a week.
of the most anomalous forms now known in the world, as the
When him and the old lady come down in the morning all the family got
Ornithorhynchus and Lepidosiren, which, like fossils, connect to a
Pardon, my gracious lord; for I submit
up out of their chairs and give them good-day, and didn’t set down
My fancy to your eyes. When I consider
certain extent orders now widely separated in the natural scale. These
again till they had set down. Then Tom and Bob went to the sideboard
anomalous forms may almost be called living fossils; they have endured
What great creation, and what dole of honour
where the decanter was, and mixed a glass of bitters and handed it to
Flies where you bid it, I find that she, which late
to the present day, from having inhabited a confined area, and from
having thus been exposed to less severe competition.
Was in my nobler thoughts most base, is now
him, and he held it in his hand and waited till Tom’s and Bob’s was
To sum up the circumstances favourable and unfavourable to natural
The praised of the king; who, so ennobled,
mixed, and then they bowed and said, “Our duty to you, sir, and madam;”
selection, as far as the extreme intricacy of the subject permits. I
and _they_ bowed the least bit in the world and said thank you, and so
And tell her she is thine; to whom I promise
they drank, all three, and Bob and Tom poured a spoonful of water on
conclude, looking to the future, that for terrestrial productions a
A counterpoise; if not to thy estate,
large continental area, which will probably undergo many oscillations
Good fortune and the favour of the king
the sugar and the mite of whisky or apple brandy in the bottom of their
of level, and which consequently will exist for long periods in a
Smile upon this contract; whose ceremony
tumblers, and give it to me and Buck, and we drank to the old people
Shall seem expedient on the now-born brief,
broken condition, will be the most favourable for the production of
Bob was the oldest and Tom next—tall, beautiful men with very broad
shoulders and brown faces, and long black hair and black eyes. They
many new forms of life, likely to endure long and to spread widely. For
And be perform’d tonight. The solemn feast
the area will first have existed as a continent, and the inhabitants,
Shall more attend upon the coming space,
dressed in white linen from head to foot, like the old gentleman, and
Expecting absent friends. As thou lov’st her,
at this period numerous in individuals and kinds, will have been
Then there was Miss Charlotte; she was twenty-five, and tall and proud
Thy love’s to me religious; else, does err.
and grand, but as good as she could be when she warn’t stirred up; but
subjected to very severe competition. When converted by subsidence into
when she was, she had a look that would make you wilt in your tracks,
large separate islands, there will still exist many individuals of the
[_Exeunt King, Bertram, Helena, Lords, and Attendants._]
like her father. She was beautiful.
same species on each island: intercrossing on the confines of the range
Do you hear, monsieur? A word with you.
Your lord and master did well to make his recantation.
So was her sister, Miss Sophia, but it was a different kind. She was
of each species will thus be checked: after physical changes of any
Recantation! My lord! My master!
gentle and sweet like a dove, and she was only twenty.
kind, immigration will be prevented,
Ay. Is it not a language I speak?
so that new places in the polity of each island will have to be filled
Each person had their own nigger to wait on them—Buck too. My nigger
up by modifications of the old inhabitants; and time will be allowed
A most harsh one, and not to be understood without bloody succeeding.
had a monstrous easy time, because I warn’t used to having anybody do
for the varieties in each to become well modified and perfected. When,
Are you companion to the Count Rossillon?
anything for me, but Buck’s was on the jump most of the time.
This was all there was of the family now, but there used to be
by renewed elevation, the islands shall be re-converted into a
To any count; to all counts; to what is man.
To what is count’s man: count’s master is of another style.
more—three sons; they got killed; and Emmeline that died.
continental area, there will again be severe competition: the most
favoured or improved varieties will be enabled to spread: there will be
You are too old, sir; let it satisfy you, you are too old.
The old gentleman owned a lot of farms and over a hundred niggers.
Sometimes a stack of people would come there, horseback, from ten or
much extinction of the less improved forms, and the relative
I must tell thee, sirrah, I write man; to which title age cannot bring
What I dare too well do, I dare not do.
fifteen mile around, and stay five or six days, and have such
proportional numbers of the various inhabitants of the renewed
junketings round about and on the river, and dances and picnics in the
I did think thee, for two ordinaries, to be a pretty wise fellow; thou
continent will again be changed; and again there will be a fair field
for natural selection to improve still further the inhabitants, and
didst make tolerable vent of thy travel; it might pass. Yet the scarfs
woods daytimes, and balls at the house nights. These people was mostly
and the bannerets about thee did manifoldly dissuade me from believing
That natural selection will always act with extreme slowness, I fully
kinfolks of the family. The men brought their guns with them. It was a
admit. Its action depends on there being places in the polity of
handsome lot of quality, I tell you.
thee a vessel of too great a burden. I have now found thee; when I lose
There was another clan of aristocracy around there—five or six
nature, which can be better occupied by some of the inhabitants of the
thee again I care not. Yet art thou good for nothing but taking up, and
country undergoing modification of some kind. The existence of such
families—mostly of the name of Shepherdson. They was as high-toned and
Hadst thou not the privilege of antiquity upon thee—
places will often depend on physical changes, which are generally very
well born and rich and grand as the tribe of Grangerfords. The
Do not plunge thyself too far in anger, lest thou hasten thy trial;
slow, and on the immigration of better adapted forms having been
which if—Lord have mercy on thee for a hen! So, my good window of
Shepherdsons and Grangerfords used the same steamboat landing, which
checked. But the action of natural selection will probably still
was about two mile above our house; so sometimes when I went up there
lattice, fare thee well; thy casement I need not open, for I look
through thee. Give me thy hand.
oftener depend on some of the inhabitants becoming slowly modified; the
with a lot of our folks I used to see a lot of the Shepherdsons there
One day Buck and me was away out in the woods hunting, and heard a
My lord, you give me most egregious indignity.
mutual relations of many of the other inhabitants being thus disturbed.
horse coming. We was crossing the road. Buck says:
Ay, with all my heart; and thou art worthy of it.
Nothing can be effected, unless favourable variations occur, and
We done it, and then peeped down the woods through the leaves. Pretty
I have not, my lord, deserv’d it.
variation itself is apparently always a very slow process. The process
will often be greatly retarded by free intercrossing. Many will exclaim
Yes, good faith, every dram of it; and I will not bate thee a scruple.
soon a splendid young man come galloping down the road, setting his
horse easy and looking like a soldier. He had his gun across his
that these several causes are amply sufficient wholly to stop the
Ev’n as soon as thou canst, for thou hast to pull at a smack o’ th’
action of natural selection. I do not believe so. On the other hand, I
contrary. If ever thou beest bound in thy scarf and beaten, thou shalt
pommel. I had seen him before. It was young Harney Shepherdson. I heard
Buck’s gun go off at my ear, and Harney’s hat tumbled off from his
do believe that natural selection will always act very slowly, often
find what it is to be proud of thy bondage. I have a desire to hold my
only at long intervals of time, and generally on only a very few of the
head. He grabbed his gun and rode straight to the place where we was
acquaintance with thee, or rather my knowledge, that I may say in the
inhabitants of the same region at the same time. I further believe,
hid. But we didn’t wait. We started through the woods on a run. The
default, “He is a man I know.”
My lord, you do me most insupportable vexation.
woods warn’t thick, so I looked over my shoulder to dodge the bullet,
that this very slow, intermittent
I would it were hell-pains for thy sake, and my poor doing eternal; for
action of natural selection accords perfectly well with what geology
and twice I seen Harney cover Buck with his gun; and then he rode away
doing I am past, as I will by thee, in what motion age will give me
the way he come—to get his hat, I reckon, but I couldn’t see. We never
tells us of the rate and manner at which the inhabitants of this world
stopped running till we got home. The old gentleman’s eyes blazed a
Well, thou hast a son shall take this disgrace off me; scurvy, old,
Slow though the process of selection may be, if feeble man can do much
minute—’twas pleasure, mainly, I judged—then his face sort of smoothed
by his powers of artificial selection, I can see no limit to the amount
filthy, scurvy lord! Well, I must be patient; there is no fettering of
down, and he says, kind of gentle:
authority. I’ll beat him, by my life, if I can meet him with any
of change, to the beauty and infinite complexity of the coadaptations
“I don’t like that shooting from behind a bush. Why didn’t you step
between all organic beings, one with another and with their physical
convenience, an he were double and double a lord. I’ll have no more
“The Shepherdsons don’t, father. They always take advantage.”
pity of his age than I would have of—I’ll beat him, and if I could but
conditions of life, which may be effected in the long course of time by
Miss Charlotte she held her head up like a queen while Buck was telling
_Extinction_.—This subject will be more fully discussed in our chapter
Sirrah, your lord and master’s married; there’s news for you; you have
on Geology; but it must be here alluded to from being intimately
I most unfeignedly beseech your lordship to make some reservation of
his tale, and her nostrils spread and her eyes snapped. The two young
men looked dark, but never said nothing. Miss Sophia she turned pale,
your wrongs. He is my good lord; whom I serve above is my master.
connected with natural selection. Natural selection acts solely through
but the color come back when she found the man warn’t hurt.
the preservation of variations in some way advantageous, which
The devil it is that’s thy master. Why dost thou garter up thy arms o’
consequently endure. But as from the high geometrical powers of
this fashion? Dost make hose of thy sleeves? Do other servants so? Thou
Soon as I could get Buck down by the corn-cribs under the trees by
increase of all organic beings, each area is already fully stocked with
wert best set thy lower part where thy nose stands. By mine honour, if
“Did you want to kill him, Buck?”
I were but two hours younger, I’d beat thee. Methink’st thou art a
“Him? He never done nothing to me.”
inhabitants, it follows that as each selected and favoured form
increases in number, so will the less favoured forms decrease and
general offence, and every man should beat thee. I think thou wast
“Well, then, what did you want to kill him for?”
created for men to breathe themselves upon thee.
“Why, nothing—only it’s on account of the feud.”
become rare. Rarity, as geology tells us, is the precursor to
extinction. We can, also, see that any form represented by few
“Why, where was you raised? Don’t you know what a feud is?”
This is hard and undeserved measure, my lord.
“Never heard of it before—tell me about it.”
Go to, sir; you were beaten in Italy for picking a kernel out of a
individuals will, during fluctuations in the seasons or in the number
pomegranate; you are a vagabond, and no true traveller. You are more
of its enemies, run a good chance of utter extinction. But we may go
“Well,” says Buck, “a feud is this way. A man has a quarrel with
another man, and kills him; then that other man’s brother kills _him;_
saucy with lords and honourable personages than the commission of your
further than this; for as new forms are continually and slowly being
produced, unless we believe that the number of specific forms goes on
birth and virtue gives you heraldry. You are not worth another word,
then the other brothers, on both sides, goes for one another; then the
else I’d call you knave. I leave you.
perpetually and almost indefinitely increasing, numbers inevitably must
_cousins_ chip in—and by-and-by everybody’s killed off, and there ain’t
become extinct. That the number of specific forms has not indefinitely
Good, very good, it is so then. Good, very good; let it be conceal’d
no more feud. But it’s kind of slow, and takes a long time.”
Undone, and forfeited to cares for ever!
“Has this one been going on long, Buck?”
increased, geology shows us plainly; and indeed we can see reason why
“Well, I should _reckon!_ It started thirty year ago, or som’ers along
they should not have thus increased, for the number of places in the
What’s the matter, sweetheart?
Although before the solemn priest I have sworn,
polity of nature is not indefinitely great,—not that we
there. There was trouble ’bout something, and then a lawsuit to settle
O my Parolles, they have married me!
have any means of knowing that any one region has as yet got its
it; and the suit went agin one of the men, and so he up and shot the
maximum of species. Probably no region is as yet fully stocked, for at
man that won the suit—which he would naturally do, of course. Anybody
I’ll to the Tuscan wars, and never bed her.
“What was the trouble about, Buck?—land?”
the Cape of Good Hope, where more species of plants are crowded
France is a dog-hole, and it no more merits
The tread of a man’s foot: to the wars!
together than in any other quarter of the world, some foreign plants
“I reckon maybe—I don’t know.”
There’s letters from my mother; what th’ import is
“Well, who done the shooting? Was it a Grangerford or a Shepherdson?”
have become naturalised, without causing, as far as we know, the
“Laws, how do _I_ know? It was so long ago.”
Ay, that would be known. To th’ wars, my boy, to th’ wars!
Furthermore, the species which are most numerous in individuals will
“Oh, yes, pa knows, I reckon, and some of the other old people; but
He wears his honour in a box unseen
have the best chance of producing within any given period favourable
they don’t know now what the row was about in the first place.”
variations. We have evidence of this, in the facts given in the second
That hugs his kicky-wicky here at home,
Spending his manly marrow in her arms,
chapter, showing that it is the common species which afford the
“Has there been many killed, Buck?”
“Yes; right smart chance of funerals. But they don’t always kill. Pa’s
Which should sustain the bound and high curvet
greatest number of recorded varieties, or incipient species. Hence,
Of Mars’s fiery steed. To other regions!
rare species will be less quickly modified or improved within any given
got a few buckshot in him; but he don’t mind it ’cuz he don’t weigh
France is a stable; we that dwell in’t, jades,
much, anyway. Bob’s been carved up some with a bowie, and Tom’s been
period, and they will consequently be beaten in the race for life by
the modified descendants of the commoner species.
“Has anybody been killed this year, Buck?”
It shall be so; I’ll send her to my house,
“Yes; we got one and they got one. ’Bout three months ago my cousin
Acquaint my mother with my hate to her,
From these several considerations I think it inevitably follows, that
And wherefore I am fled; write to the king
as new species in the course of time are formed through natural
Bud, fourteen year old, was riding through the woods on t’other side of
selection, others will become rarer and rarer, and finally extinct. The
the river, and didn’t have no weapon with him, which was blame’
That which I durst not speak. His present gift
foolishness, and in a lonesome place he hears a horse a-coming behind
Shall furnish me to those Italian fields
forms which stand in closest competition with those undergoing
Where noble fellows strike. War is no strife
modification and improvement, will naturally suffer most. And we have
him, and sees old Baldy Shepherdson a-linkin’ after him with his gun in
his hand and his white hair a-flying in the wind; and ’stead of jumping
To the dark house and the detested wife.
seen in the chapter on the Struggle for Existence that it is the most
Will this caprichio hold in thee, art sure?
off and taking to the brush, Bud ’lowed he could out-run him; so they
closely-allied forms,—varieties of the same species, and species of the
Go with me to my chamber and advise me.
same genus or of related genera,—which, from having nearly the same
had it, nip and tuck, for five mile or more, the old man a-gaining all
the time; so at last Bud seen it warn’t any use, so he stopped and
structure, constitution, and habits, generally come into the severest
I’ll send her straight away. Tomorrow
faced around so as to have the bullet holes in front, you know, and the
competition with each other. Consequently, each new variety or species,
I’ll to the wars, she to her single sorrow.
Why, these balls bound; there’s noise in it. ’Tis hard:
old man he rode up and shot him down. But he didn’t git much chance to
during the progress of its formation, will generally press hardest on
its nearest kindred, and tend to exterminate them. We see the same
A young man married is a man that’s marr’d.
enjoy his luck, for inside of a week our folks laid _him_ out.”
Therefore away, and leave her bravely; go.
process of extermination amongst our domesticated productions, through
“I reckon that old man was a coward, Buck.”
The king has done you wrong; but hush ’tis so.
the selection of improved forms by man. Many curious
“I reckon he _warn’t_ a coward. Not by a blame’ sight. There ain’t a
SCENE IV. Paris. The King’s palace.
coward amongst them Shepherdsons—not a one. And there ain’t no cowards
instances could be given showing how quickly new breeds of cattle,
My mother greets me kindly: is she well?
sheep, and other animals, and varieties of flowers, take the place of
amongst the Grangerfords either. Why, that old man kep’ up his end in a
older and inferior kinds. In Yorkshire, it is historically known that
fight one day for half an hour against three Grangerfords, and come out
She is not well, but yet she has her health; she’s very merry, but yet
winner. They was all a-horseback; he lit off of his horse and got
the ancient black cattle were displaced by the long-horns, and that
she is not well. But thanks be given, she’s very well, and wants
nothing i’ the world; but yet she is not well.
behind a little woodpile, and kep’ his horse before him to stop the
these “were swept away by the short-horns” (I quote the words of an
If she be very well, what does she ail that she’s not very well?
agricultural writer) “as if by some murderous pestilence.”
bullets; but the Grangerfords stayed on their horses and capered around
Truly, she’s very well indeed, but for two things.
_Divergence of Character_.—The principle, which I have designated by
the old man, and peppered away at him, and he peppered away at them.
this term, is of high importance on my theory, and explains, as I
Him and his horse both went home pretty leaky and crippled, but the
One, that she’s not in heaven, whither God send her quickly! The other,
Grangerfords had to be _fetched_ home—and one of ’em was dead, and
believe, several important facts. In the first place, varieties, even
that she’s in earth, from whence God send her quickly!
strongly-marked ones, though having somewhat of the character of
another died the next day. No, sir; if a body’s out hunting for cowards
I hope, sir, I have your good will to have mine own good fortune.
You had my prayers to lead them on; and to keep them on, have them
he don’t want to fool away any time amongst them Shepherdsons, becuz
species—as is shown by the hopeless doubts in many cases how to rank
them—yet certainly differ from each other far less than do good and
still. O, my knave how does my old lady?
they don’t breed any of that _kind_.”
So that you had her wrinkles and I her money, I would she did as you
distinct species. Nevertheless, according to my view, varieties are
Next Sunday we all went to church, about three mile, everybody
species in the process of formation, or are, as I have called them,
Marry, you are the wiser man; for many a man’s tongue shakes out his
a-horseback. The men took their guns along, so did Buck, and kept them
between their knees or stood them handy against the wall. The
master’s undoing. To say nothing, to do nothing, to know nothing, and
incipient species. How, then, does the lesser difference between
to have nothing, is to be a great part of your title; which is within a
Shepherdsons done the same. It was pretty ornery preaching—all about
varieties become augmented into the greater difference between species?
That this does habitually happen, we must infer from most of the
You should have said, sir, before a knave thou art a knave; that is
brotherly love, and such-like tiresomeness; but everybody said it was a
innumerable species throughout nature presenting well-marked
good sermon, and they all talked it over going home, and had such a
before me thou art a knave. This had been truth, sir.
differences; whereas varieties, the supposed prototypes and parents of
powerful lot to say about faith and good works and free grace and
Go to, thou art a witty fool; I have found thee.
preforeordestination, and I don’t know what all, that it did seem to me
Did you find me in yourself, sir? or were you taught to find me? The
future well-marked species, present slight and ill-defined differences.
search, sir, was profitable; and much fool may you find in you, even to
Mere chance, as we may call it, might cause one variety to differ in
to be one of the roughest Sundays I had run across yet.
some character from its parents, and the offspring of this variety
About an hour after dinner everybody was dozing around, some in their
the world’s pleasure and the increase of laughter.
A good knave, i’ faith, and well fed.
chairs and some in their rooms, and it got to be pretty dull. Buck and
again to differ from its parent in the very same character and in a
greater degree; but this alone would never account for so habitual and
Madam, my lord will go away tonight;
a dog was stretched out on the grass in the sun sound asleep. I went up
large an amount of difference as that between varieties of the same
to our room, and judged I would take a nap myself. I found that sweet
A very serious business calls on him.
species and species of the same genus.
The great prerogative and right of love,
Miss Sophia standing in her door, which was next to ours, and she took
me in her room and shut the door very soft, and asked me if I liked
As has always been my practice, let us seek light on
Which, as your due, time claims, he does acknowledge;
But puts it off to a compell’d restraint;
her, and I said I did; and she asked me if I would do something for her
this head from our domestic productions. We shall here find something
and not tell anybody, and I said I would. Then she said she’d forgot
analogous. A fancier is struck by a pigeon having a slightly shorter
Whose want, and whose delay, is strew’d with sweets;
her Testament, and left it in the seat at church between two other
beak; another fancier is struck by a pigeon having a rather longer
Which they distil now in the curbed time,
To make the coming hour o’erflow with joy
books, and would I slip out quiet and go there and fetch it to her, and
beak; and on the acknowledged principle that “fanciers do not and will
That you will take your instant leave o’ the king,
not admire a medium standard, but like extremes,” they both go on (as
not say nothing to nobody. I said I would. So I slid out and slipped
has actually occurred with tumbler-pigeons) choosing and breeding from
off up the road, and there warn’t anybody at the church, except maybe a
And make this haste as your own good proceeding,
birds with longer and longer beaks, or with shorter and shorter beaks.
hog or two, for there warn’t any lock on the door, and hogs likes a
Strengthen’d with what apology you think
Again, we may suppose that at an early period one man preferred swifter
puncheon floor in summer-time because it’s cool. If you notice, most
That, having this obtain’d, you presently
folks don’t go to church only when they’ve got to; but a hog is
In everything I wait upon his will.
horses; another stronger and more bulky horses. The early differences
would be very slight; in the course of time, from the continued
SCENE V. Another room in the same.
Says I to myself, something’s up; it ain’t natural for a girl to be in
But I hope your lordship thinks not him a soldier.
such a sweat about a Testament. So I give it a shake, and out drops a
selection of swifter horses by some breeders, and of stronger ones by
little piece of paper with “_Half-past two_” wrote on it with a pencil.
others, the differences would become greater, and would be noted as
Yes, my lord, and of very valiant approof.
I ransacked it, but couldn’t find anything else. I couldn’t make
forming two sub-breeds; finally, after the lapse of centuries, the
You have it from his own deliverance.
And by other warranted testimony.
anything out of that, so I put the paper in the book again, and when I
sub-breeds would become converted into two well-established and
distinct breeds. As the differences slowly become greater, the inferior
Then my dial goes not true; I took this lark for a bunting.
got home and upstairs there was Miss Sophia in her door waiting for me.
animals with intermediate characters, being neither very swift nor very
I do assure you, my lord, he is very great in knowledge, and
She pulled me in and shut the door; then she looked in the Testament
I have, then, sinned against his experience and transgressed against
strong, will have been neglected, and will have tended to disappear.
till she found the paper, and as soon as she read it she looked glad;
Here, then, we see in man’s productions the action of what may be
and before a body could think she grabbed me and give me a squeeze, and
his valour; and my state that way is dangerous, since I cannot yet find
called the principle of divergence, causing differences, at first
said I was the best boy in the world, and not to tell anybody. She was
in my heart to repent. Here he comes; I pray you make us friends; I
[_To Bertram._] These things shall be done, sir.
mighty red in the face for a minute, and her eyes lighted up, and it
barely appreciable, steadily to increase, and the breeds to diverge in
Pray you, sir, who’s his tailor?
made her powerful pretty. I was a good deal astonished, but when I got
character both from each other and from their common parent.
But how, it may be asked, can any analogous principle apply in nature?
O, I know him well, I, sir; he, sir, is a good workman, a very good
my breath I asked her what the paper was about, and she asked me if I
[_Aside to Parolles._] Is she gone to the king?
had read it, and I said no, and she asked me if I could read writing,
I believe it can and does apply most efficiently, from the simple
and I told her “no, only coarse-hand,” and then she said the paper
I have writ my letters, casketed my treasure,
circumstance that the more diversified the descendants from any one
species become in structure, constitution, and habits, by so much will
warn’t anything but a book-mark to keep her place, and I might go and
Given order for our horses; and tonight,
When I should take possession of the bride,
they be better enabled to seize on many and widely diversified places
I went off down to the river, studying over this thing, and pretty soon
A good traveller is something at the latter end of a dinner; but one
I noticed that my nigger was following along behind. When we was out of
in the polity of nature, and so be enabled to increase in numbers.
that lies three-thirds and uses a known truth to pass a thousand
sight of the house he looked back and around a second, and then comes
We can clearly see this in the case of animals with simple habits. Take
the case of a carnivorous quadruped, of which the number that can be
nothings with, should be once heard and thrice beaten.— God save you,
“Mars Jawge, if you’ll come down into de swamp I’ll show you a whole
Thinks I, that’s mighty curious; he said that yesterday. He oughter
supported in any country has long ago arrived at its full average. If
Is there any unkindness between my lord and you, monsieur?
know a body don’t love water-moccasins enough to go around hunting for
I know not how I have deserved to run into my lord’s displeasure.
its natural powers of increase be allowed to act, it can succeed in
increasing (the country not undergoing any change in its conditions)
them. What is he up to, anyway? So I says:
You have made shift to run into ’t, boots and spurs and all, like him
only by its varying descendants seizing on places at present occupied
that leapt into the custard; and out of it you’ll run again, rather
I followed a half a mile; then he struck out over the swamp, and waded
than suffer question for your residence.
by other animals: some of them, for instance, being enabled to feed on
ankle deep as much as another half-mile. We come to a little flat piece
new kinds of prey, either dead or alive; some inhabiting new stations,
It may be you have mistaken him, my lord.
of land which was dry and very thick with trees and bushes and vines,
And shall do so ever, though I took him at his prayers. Fare you well,
“You shove right in dah jist a few steps, Mars Jawge; dah’s whah dey
climbing trees, frequenting water, and some perhaps becoming less
is. I’s seed ’m befo’; I don’t k’yer to see ’em no mo’.”
carnivorous. The more diversified in habits and structure the
my lord; and believe this of me, there can be no kernal in this light
Then he slopped right along and went away, and pretty soon the trees
descendants of our carnivorous animal became, the more places they
nut; the soul of this man is his clothes; trust him not in matter of
hid him. I poked into the place a-ways and come to a little open patch
would be enabled to occupy. What applies to one animal will apply
heavy consequence; I have kept of them tame, and know their natures.
as big as a bedroom all hung around with vines, and found a man laying
throughout all time to all animals—that is, if they vary—for otherwise
Farewell, monsieur; I have spoken better of you than you have or will
to deserve at my hand; but we must do good against evil.
there asleep—and, by jings, it was my old Jim!
natural selection can do nothing. So it will be with plants. It has
I waked him up, and I reckoned it was going to be a grand surprise to
been experimentally proved, that if a plot of ground be sown with one
Yes, I do know him well; and common speech
Gives him a worthy pass. Here comes my clog.
him to see me again, but it warn’t. He nearly cried he was so glad, but
species of grass, and a similar plot be sown with several distinct
he warn’t surprised. Said he swum along behind me that night, and heard
I have, sir, as I was commanded from you,
genera of grasses, a greater number of plants and a greater weight of
me yell every time, but dasn’t answer, because he didn’t want nobody to
dry herbage can thus be raised. The same has been found to hold good
Spoke with the king, and have procur’d his leave
when first one variety and then several mixed varieties of wheat have
pick _him_ up and take him into slavery again. Says he:
For present parting; only he desires
been sown on equal spaces of ground. Hence, if any one species of grass
“I got hurt a little, en couldn’t swim fas’, so I wuz a considable ways
You must not marvel, Helen, at my course,
were to go on varying, and those varieties were continually selected
behine you towards de las’; when you landed I reck’ned I could ketch up
Which holds not colour with the time, nor does
which differed from each other in at all the same manner as distinct
wid you on de lan’ ’dout havin’ to shout at you, but when I see dat
The ministration and required office
species and genera of grasses differ from each other, a greater number
house I begin to go slow. I ’uz off too fur to hear what dey say to
On my particular. Prepared I was not
of individual plants of this species of grass, including its modified
you—I wuz ’fraid o’ de dogs; but when it ’uz all quiet agin, I knowed
For such a business; therefore am I found
descendants, would succeed in living on the same piece of ground. And
you’s in de house, so I struck out for de woods to wait for day. Early
So much unsettled: this drives me to entreat you;
That presently you take your way for home,
we well know that each species and each variety of grass is annually
in de mawnin’ some er de niggers come along, gwyne to de fields, en dey
sowing almost countless seeds; and thus, as it may be said, is striving
tuk me en showed me dis place, whah de dogs can’t track me on accounts
And rather muse than ask why I entreat you:
For my respects are better than they seem;
its utmost to increase its numbers. Consequently,
o’ de water, en dey brings me truck to eat every night, en tells me how
“Why didn’t you tell my Jack to fetch me here sooner, Jim?”
And my appointments have in them a need
I cannot doubt that in the course of many thousands of generations, the
“Well, ’twarn’t no use to ’sturb you, Huck, tell we could do sumfn—but
most distinct varieties of any one species of grass would always have
Greater than shows itself at the first view
To you that know them not. This to my mother.
we’s all right now. I ben a-buyin’ pots en pans en vittles, as I got a
the best chance of succeeding and of increasing in numbers, and thus of
chanst, en a-patchin’ up de raf’ nights when—”
supplanting the less distinct varieties; and varieties, when rendered
’Twill be two days ere I shall see you; so
“You mean to say our old raft warn’t smashed all to flinders?”
very distinct from each other, take the rank of species.
But that I am your most obedient servant.
The truth of the principle, that the greatest amount of life can be
“No, she warn’t. She was tore up a good deal—one en’ of her was; but
With true observance seek to eke out that
supported by great diversification of structure, is seen under many
Wherein toward me my homely stars have fail’d
dey warn’t no great harm done, on’y our traps was mos’ all los’. Ef we
natural circumstances. In an extremely small area, especially if freely
My haste is very great. Farewell; hie home.
hadn’ dive’ so deep en swum so fur under water, en de night hadn’ ben
I am not worthy of the wealth I owe;
open to immigration, and where the contest between individual and
so dark, en we warn’t so sk’yerd, en ben sich punkin-heads, as de
Nor dare I say ’tis mine, and yet it is;
sayin’ is, we’d a seed de raf’. But it’s jis’ as well we didn’t, ’kase
individual must be severe, we always find great diversity in its
now she’s all fixed up agin mos’ as good as new, en we’s got a new lot
inhabitants. For instance, I found that a piece of turf, three feet by
But, like a timorous thief, most fain would steal
Something; and scarce so much; nothing indeed.
o’ stuff, in de place o’ what ’uz los’.”
four in size, which had been exposed for many years to exactly the same
conditions, supported twenty species of plants, and these belonged to
I would not tell you what I would, my lord. Faith, yes,
“Why, how did you get hold of the raft again, Jim—did you catch her?”
“How I gwyne to ketch her en I out in de woods? No; some er de niggers
Strangers and foes do sunder and not kiss.
eighteen genera and to eight orders, which shows how much these plants
foun’ her ketched on a snag along heah in de ben’, en dey hid her in a
I pray you, stay not, but in haste to horse.
differed from each other. So it is with the plants and insects on small
and uniform islets; and so in small ponds of fresh water. Farmers find
I shall not break your bidding, good my lord.
crick ’mongst de willows, en dey wuz so much jawin’ ’bout which un ’um
she b’long to de mos’ dat I come to heah ’bout it pooty soon, so I ups
Where are my other men, monsieur?
that they can raise most food by a rotation of plants belonging to the
en settles de trouble by tellin’ ’um she don’t b’long to none uv um,
Go thou toward home, where I will never come
most different orders: nature follows what may be called a simultaneous
Whilst I can shake my sword or hear the drum.
but to you en me; en I ast ’m if dey gwyne to grab a young white
rotation. Most of the animals and plants which live close round any
genlman’s propaty, en git a hid’n for it? Den I gin ’m ten cents
SCENE I. Florence. A room in the Duke’s palace.
small piece of ground, could live on it (supposing it not to be in any
apiece, en dey ’uz mighty well satisfied, en wisht some mo’ raf’s ’ud
way peculiar in its nature), and may be said to be striving to the
Flourish. Enter the Duke of Florence attended; two French Lords, and
So that, from point to point, now have you heard
utmost to live there; but, it is seen, that where they come into the
come along en make ’m rich agin. Dey’s mighty good to me, dese niggers
The fundamental reasons of this war,
is, en whatever I wants ’m to do fur me, I doan’ have to ast ’m twice,
closest competition with each other, the advantages of diversification
Whose great decision hath much blood let forth,
of structure, with the accompanying differences of habit and
honey. Dat Jack’s a good nigger, en pooty smart.”
constitution, determine that the inhabitants, which thus jostle each
Upon your Grace’s part; black and fearful
“Yes, he is. He ain’t ever told me you was here; told me to come, and
other most closely, shall, as a general rule, belong to what we call
Therefore we marvel much our cousin France
he’d show me a lot of water-moccasins. If anything happens _he_ ain’t
Would, in so just a business, shut his bosom
The same principle is seen in the naturalisation of
mixed up in it. He can say he never seen us together, and it’ll be the
Against our borrowing prayers.
I don’t want to talk much about the next day. I reckon I’ll cut it
plants through man’s agency in foreign lands. It might have been
The reasons of our state I cannot yield,
expected that the plants which have succeeded in becoming naturalised
pretty short. I waked up about dawn, and was a-going to turn over and
in any land would generally have been closely allied to the indigenes;
go to sleep again, when I noticed how still it was—didn’t seem to be
But like a common and an outward man
That the great figure of a council frames
for these are commonly looked at as specially created and adapted for
anybody stirring. That warn’t usual. Next I noticed that Buck was up
their own country. It might, also, perhaps have been expected that
and gone. Well, I gets up, a-wondering, and goes down stairs—nobody
By self-unable motion; therefore dare not
around; everything as still as a mouse. Just the same outside. Thinks
Say what I think of it, since I have found
naturalised plants would have belonged to a few groups more especially
I, what does it mean? Down by the wood-pile I comes across my Jack, and
adapted to certain stations in their new homes. But the case is very
Myself in my incertain grounds to fail
“Well, den, Miss Sophia’s run off! ’deed she has. She run off in de
different; and Alph. De Candolle has well remarked in his great and
But I am sure the younger of our nature,
night some time—nobody don’t know jis’ when; run off to get married to
admirable work, that floras gain by naturalisation, proportionally with
That surfeit on their ease, will day by day
dat young Harney Shepherdson, you know—leastways, so dey ’spec. De
And all the honours that can fly from us
the number of the native genera and species, far more in new genera
than in new species. To give a single instance: in the last edition of
Shall on them settle. You know your places well;
fambly foun’ it out ’bout half an hour ago—maybe a little mo’—en’ I
_tell_ you dey warn’t no time los’. Sich another hurryin’ up guns en
When better fall, for your avails they fell.
Dr. Asa Gray’s ‘Manual of the Flora of the Northern United States,’ 260
hosses _you_ never see! De women folks has gone for to stir up de
SCENE II. Rossillon. A room in the Countess’s palace.
naturalised plants are enumerated, and these belong to 162 genera. We
It hath happen’d all as I would have had it, save that he comes not
thus see that these naturalised plants are of a highly diversified
relations, en ole Mars Saul en de boys tuck dey guns en rode up de
nature. They differ, moreover, to a large extent from the indigenes,
river road for to try to ketch dat young man en kill him ’fo’ he kin
By my troth, I take my young lord to be a very melancholy man.
for out of the 162 genera, no less than 100 genera are not there
By what observance, I pray you?
git acrost de river wid Miss Sophia. I reck’n dey’s gwyne to be mighty
indigenous, and thus a large proportional addition is made to the
“Buck went off ’thout waking me up.”
Why, he will look upon his boot and sing; mend the ruff and sing; ask
questions and sing; pick his teeth and sing. I know a man that had this
“Well, I reck’n he _did!_ Dey warn’t gwyne to mix you up in it. Mars
By considering the nature of the plants or animals which have struggled
successfully with the indigenes of any country, and have there become
Buck he loaded up his gun en ’lowed he’s gwyne to fetch home a
trick of melancholy sold a goodly manor for a song.
Let me see what he writes, and when he means to come.
naturalised, we can gain some crude idea in what manner some of the
Shepherdson or bust. Well, dey’ll be plenty un ’m dah, I reck’n, en you
natives would have had to be modified, in order to have gained an
I have no mind to Isbel since I was at court. Our old lings and our
bet you he’ll fetch one ef he gits a chanst.”
Isbels o’ th’ country are nothing like your old ling and your Isbels o’
I took up the river road as hard as I could put. By-and-by I begin to
advantage over the other natives; and we may, I think, at least safely
infer that diversification of structure, amounting to new generic
th’ court. The brains of my Cupid’s knock’d out, and I begin to love,
hear guns a good ways off. When I come in sight of the log store and
as an old man loves money, with no stomach.
the woodpile where the steamboats lands, I worked along under the trees
differences, would have been profitable to them.
and brush till I got to a good place, and then I clumb up into the
The advantage of diversification in the inhabitants of the same region
[_Reads._] _I have sent you a daughter-in-law; she hath recovered the
forks of a cottonwood that was out of reach, and watched. There was a
king and undone me. I have wedded her, not bedded her, and sworn to
is, in fact, the same as that of the physiological division of labour
wood-rank four foot high a little ways in front of the tree, and first
in the organs of the same individual body—a subject so well elucidated
make the “not” eternal. You shall hear I am run away; know it before
the report come. If there be breadth enough in the world, I will hold a
I was going to hide behind that; but maybe it was luckier I didn’t.
Milne Edwards. No physiologist doubts that a stomach by being adapted
to digest vegetable matter alone, or flesh alone, draws most nutriment
long distance. My duty to you.
There was four or five men cavorting around on their horses in the open
from these substances. So in the general economy of any land, the more
place before the log store, cussing and yelling, and trying to get at a
This is not well, rash and unbridled boy,
widely and perfectly the animals and plants are diversified for
couple of young chaps that was behind the wood-rank alongside of the
To fly the favours of so good a king,
steamboat landing; but they couldn’t come it. Every time one of them
different habits of life, so will a greater number of individuals be
To pluck his indignation on thy head
By the misprizing of a maid too virtuous
showed himself on the river side of the woodpile he got shot at. The
capable of there supporting themselves. A set of animals, with their
O madam, yonder is heavy news within between two soldiers and my young
organisation but little diversified, could hardly compete with a set
two boys was squatting back to back behind the pile, so they could
Nay, there is some comfort in the news, some comfort; your son will not
By-and-by the men stopped cavorting around and yelling. They started
more perfectly diversified in structure. It may be doubted, for
instance, whether the Australian marsupials, which are divided into
be kill’d so soon as I thought he would.
riding towards the store; then up gets one of the boys, draws a steady
groups differing but little from each other, and feebly representing,
bead over the wood-rank, and drops one of them out of his saddle. All
So say I, madam, if he run away, as I hear he does; the danger is in
the men jumped off of their horses and grabbed the hurt one and started
standing to’t; that’s the loss of men, though it be the getting of
as Mr. Waterhouse and others have remarked, our carnivorous, ruminant,
to carry him to the store; and that minute the two boys started on the
children. Here they come will tell you more. For my part, I only hear
and rodent mammals, could successfully compete with these
well-pronounced orders. In the Australian mammals, we see the process
run. They got half way to the tree I was in before the men noticed.
Enter Helena and the two Gentlemen.
Then the men see them, and jumped on their horses and took out after
of diversification in an early and incomplete stage of development.
Madam, my lord is gone, for ever gone.
them. They gained on the boys, but it didn’t do no good, the boys had
After the foregoing discussion, which ought to have been much
Think upon patience. Pray you, gentlemen,—
amplified, we may, I think, assume that the modified descendants of any
too good a start; they got to the woodpile that was in front of my
I have felt so many quirks of joy and grief
one species will succeed by so much the better as they become more
That the first face of neither on the start
tree, and slipped in behind it, and so they had the bulge on the men
again. One of the boys was Buck, and the other was a slim young chap
Can woman me unto ’t. Where is my son, I pray you?
diversified in structure, and are thus enabled to encroach on places
The men ripped around awhile, and then rode away. As soon as they was
Madam, he’s gone to serve the Duke of Florence;
occupied by other beings. Now let us see how this principle of great
We met him thitherward, for thence we came,
out of sight I sung out to Buck and told him. He didn’t know what to
benefit being derived from divergence of character, combined with the
principles of natural selection and of extinction, will tend to act.
And, after some despatch in hand at court,
make of my voice coming out of the tree at first. He was awful
surprised. He told me to watch out sharp and let him know when the men
Look on this letter, madam; here’s my passport.
The accompanying diagram will aid us in understanding this rather
perplexing subject. Let A to L represent the species of a genus large
come in sight again; said they was up to some devilment or
[_Reads._] _When thou canst get the ring upon my finger, which never
other—wouldn’t be gone long. I wished I was out of that tree, but I
in its own country; these species are supposed to resemble each other
shall come off, and show me a child begotten of thy body that I am
father to, then call me husband; but in such a “then” I write a
dasn’t come down. Buck begun to cry and rip, and ’lowed that him and
in unequal degrees, as is so generally the case in nature, and as is
his cousin Joe (that was the other young chap) would make up for this
represented in the diagram by the letters standing at unequal
Brought you this letter, gentlemen?
Ay, madam; And for the contents’ sake, are sorry for our pains.
distances. I have said a large genus, because we have seen in the
day yet. He said his father and his two brothers was killed, and two or
I pr’ythee, lady, have a better cheer;
that on an average more of the species of large genera vary than of
three of the enemy. Said the Shepherdsons laid for them in ambush. Buck
If thou engrossest all the griefs are thine,
small genera; and the varying species of the large genera present a
said his father and brothers ought to waited for their relations—the
Thou robb’st me of a moiety. He was my son,
Shepherdsons was too strong for them. I asked him what was become of
greater number of varieties. We have, also, seen that the species,
But I do wash his name out of my blood,
young Harney and Miss Sophia. He said they’d got across the river and
which are the commonest and the most widely-diffused, vary more than
And thou art all my child. Towards Florence is he?
rare species with restricted ranges. Let (A) be a common,
was safe. I was glad of that; but the way Buck did take on because he
didn’t manage to kill Harney that day he shot at him—I hain’t ever
Such is his noble purpose, and, believe’t,
widely-diffused, and varying species, belonging to a genus large in its
The duke will lay upon him all the honour
All of a sudden, bang! bang! bang! goes three or four guns—the men had
own country. The little fan of diverging dotted lines of unequal
lengths proceeding from (A), may represent its varying offspring. The
slipped around through the woods and come in from behind without their
Ay, madam, with the swiftest wing of speed.
[_Reads._] _Till I have no wife, I have nothing in France._
horses! The boys jumped for the river—both of them hurt—and as they
variations are supposed to be extremely slight, but of the most
’Tis but the boldness of his hand haply, which his heart was not
swum down the current the men run along the bank shooting at them and
diversified nature; they are not supposed all to appear simultaneously,
but often after long intervals of time; nor are they all supposed to
Nothing in France until he have no wife!
singing out, “Kill them, kill them!” It made me so sick I most fell out
endure for equal periods. Only those variations which are in some way
There’s nothing here that is too good for him
of the tree. I ain’t a-going to tell _all_ that happened—it would make
me sick again if I was to do that. I wished I hadn’t ever come ashore
But only she, and she deserves a lord
profitable will be preserved or naturally selected. And here the
importance of the principle of benefit being derived from divergence of
That twenty such rude boys might tend upon,
that night to see such things. I ain’t ever going to get shut of
them—lots of times I dream about them.
And call her hourly mistress. Who was with him?
character comes in; for this will generally lead to the most different
A servant only, and a gentleman which I have sometime known.
I stayed in the tree till it begun to get dark, afraid to come down.
or divergent variations (represented by the outer dotted lines) being
A very tainted fellow, and full of wickedness.
preserved and accumulated by natural selection. When a dotted line
Sometimes I heard guns away off in the woods; and twice I seen little
My son corrupts a well-derived nature
reaches one of the horizontal lines, and is there marked by a small
gangs of men gallop past the log store with guns; so I reckoned the
trouble was still a-going on. I was mighty downhearted; so I made up my
The fellow has a deal of that too much,
numbered letter, a sufficient amount of variation is supposed to have
mind I wouldn’t ever go anear that house again, because I reckoned I
been accumulated to have formed a fairly well-marked variety, such as
I will entreat you, when you see my son,
was to blame, somehow. I judged that that piece of paper meant that
To tell him that his sword can never win
would be thought worthy of record in a systematic work.
Miss Sophia was to meet Harney somewheres at half-past two and run off;
The intervals between the horizontal lines in the diagram, may
The honour that he loses: more I’ll entreat you
In that and all your worthiest affairs.
represent each a thousand generations; but it would have been better if
and I judged I ought to told her father about that paper and the
Not so, but as we change our courtesies.
curious way she acted, and then maybe he would a locked her up, and
each had represented ten thousand generations. After a thousand
generations, species (A) is supposed to have produced two fairly
this awful mess wouldn’t ever happened.
[_Exeunt Countess and Gentlemen._]
When I got down out of the tree, I crept along down the river bank a
well-marked varieties, namely _a_1 and _m_1. These two varieties will
“Till I have no wife, I have nothing in France.”
Nothing in France until he has no wife!
piece, and found the two bodies laying in the edge of the water, and
generally continue to be exposed to the same conditions which made
Thou shalt have none, Rossillon, none in France;
and the tendency to variability is in itself hereditary, consequently
tugged at them till I got them ashore; then I covered up their faces,
they will tend to vary, and generally to vary in nearly the same manner
Then hast thou all again. Poor lord, is’t I
and got away as quick as I could. I cried a little when I was covering
as their parents varied. Moreover, these two varieties, being only
up Buck’s face, for he was mighty good to me.
That chase thee from thy country, and expose
It was just dark now. I never went near the house, but struck through
Those tender limbs of thine to the event
slightly modified forms, will tend to inherit those advantages which
the woods and made for the swamp. Jim warn’t on his island, so I
Of the none-sparing war? And is it I
made their common parent (A) more numerous than most of the other
tramped off in a hurry for the crick, and crowded through the willows,
inhabitants of the same country; they will likewise partake of those
That drive thee from the sportive court, where thou
red-hot to jump aboard and get out of that awful country. The raft was
Wast shot at with fair eyes, to be the mark
more general advantages which made the genus to which the
parent-species belonged, a large genus in its own country. And these
gone! My souls, but I was scared! I couldn’t get my breath for most a
Of smoky muskets? O you leaden messengers,
circumstances we know to be favourable to the production of new
That ride upon the violent speed of fire,
minute. Then I raised a yell. A voice not twenty-five foot from me
“Good lan’! is dat you, honey? Doan’ make no noise.”
If, then, these two varieties be variable, the most divergent of their
Fly with false aim; move the still-peering air,
variations will generally be preserved during the next thousand
It was Jim’s voice—nothing ever sounded so good before. I run along the
That sings with piercing; do not touch my lord.
Whoever shoots at him, I set him there;
generations. And after this interval, variety _a_1 is supposed in the
bank a piece and got aboard, and Jim he grabbed me and hugged me, he
Whoever charges on his forward breast,
diagram to have produced variety _a_2, which will, owing to the
was so glad to see me. He says:
“Laws bless you, chile, I ’uz right down sho’ you’s dead agin. Jack’s
principle of divergence, differ more from (A) than did variety _a_1.
I am the caitiff that do hold him to’t;
Variety _m_1 is supposed to have produced two varieties, namely _m_2
And though I kill him not, I am the cause
been heah; he say he reck’n you’s ben shot, kase you didn’ come home no
His death was so effected. Better ’twere
mo’; so I’s jes’ dis minute a startin’ de raf’ down towards de mouf er
and _s_2, differing from each other, and more considerably from their
de crick, so’s to be all ready for to shove out en leave soon as Jack
I met the ravin lion when he roar’d
common parent (A). We may continue the process by similar steps for any
comes agin en tells me for certain you _is_ dead. Lawsy, I’s mighty
length of time; some of the varieties, after each thousand generations,
With sharp constraint of hunger; better ’twere
That all the miseries which nature owes
glad to git you back agin, honey.”
producing only a single variety, but in a more and more modified
Were mine at once. No; come thou home, Rossillon,
condition, some producing two or three varieties, and some failing to
“All right—that’s mighty good; they won’t find me, and they’ll think
Whence honour but of danger wins a scar,
produce any. Thus the varieties or modified descendants, proceeding
I’ve been killed, and floated down the river—there’s something up there
As oft it loses all. I will be gone;
that’ll help them think so—so don’t you lose no time, Jim, but just
from the common parent (A), will generally go on increasing in number
My being here it is that holds thee hence.
shove off for the big water as fast as ever you can.”
and diverging in character. In the diagram the process is represented
I never felt easy till the raft was two mile below there and out in the
up to the ten-thousandth generation, and under a condensed and
Shall I stay here to do’t? No, no, although
The air of paradise did fan the house,
simplified form up to the fourteen-thousandth generation.
middle of the Mississippi. Then we hung up our signal lantern, and
judged that we was free and safe once more. I hadn’t had a bite to eat
But I must here remark that I do not suppose that the process ever goes
And angels offic’d all. I will be gone,
That pitiful rumour may report my flight
since yesterday, so Jim he got out some corn-dodgers and buttermilk,
on so regularly as is represented in the diagram, though in itself made
I am far from thinking that the most divergent varieties will
To consolate thine ear. Come, night; end, day;
and pork and cabbage and greens—there ain’t nothing in the world so
good when it’s cooked right—and whilst I eat my supper we talked, and
invariably prevail and multiply: a medium form may often long endure,
For with the dark, poor thief, I’ll steal away.
SCENE III. Florence. Before the Duke’s palace.
had a good time. I was powerful glad to get away from the feuds, and so
and may or may not produce more than one modified descendant; for
Flourish. Enter the Duke of Florence, Bertram, drum and trumpets,
natural selection will always act according to the nature of the places
was Jim to get away from the swamp. We said there warn’t no home like a
which are either unoccupied or not perfectly occupied by other beings;
raft, after all. Other places do seem so cramped up and smothery, but a
The general of our horse thou art, and we,
raft don’t. You feel mighty free and easy and comfortable on a raft.
and this will depend on infinitely complex relations. But as a general
Great in our hope, lay our best love and credence
Two or three days and nights went by; I reckon I might say they swum
rule, the more diversified in structure the descendants from any one
A charge too heavy for my strength; but yet
We’ll strive to bear it for your worthy sake
species can be rendered, the more places they will be enabled to seize
by, they slid along so quiet and smooth and lovely. Here is the way we
And fortune play upon thy prosperous helm,
put in the time. It was a monstrous big river down there—sometimes a
on, and the more their modified progeny will be increased. In our
diagram the line of succession is broken at regular intervals by small
Great Mars, I put myself into thy file;
mile and a half wide; we run nights, and laid up and hid daytimes; soon
as night was most gone we stopped navigating and tied up—nearly always
Make me but like my thoughts, and I shall prove
numbered letters marking the successive forms which have become
in the dead water under a tow-head; and then cut young cottonwoods and
sufficiently distinct to be recorded as varieties. But these breaks are
A lover of thy drum, hater of love.
willows, and hid the raft with them. Then we set out the lines. Next we
SCENE IV. Rossillon. A room in the Countess’s palace.
imaginary, and might have been inserted anywhere, after intervals long
enough to have allowed the accumulation of a considerable amount of
Alas! and would you take the letter of her?
slid into the river and had a swim, so as to freshen up and cool off;
As all the modified descendants from a common and widely-diffused
then we set down on the sandy bottom where the water was about knee
Might you not know she would do as she has done,
species, belonging to a large genus, will tend to partake of the same
deep, and watched the daylight come. Not a sound anywheres—perfectly
By sending me a letter? Read it again.
still—just like the whole world was asleep, only sometimes the
[_Reads._] _I am Saint Jaques’ pilgrim, thither gone.
advantages which made their parent successful in life, they will
Ambitious love hath so in me offended
